GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR VISITOR AND RESIDENT VISA

Completed application form signed by the applicant.
Two passport-size photos:
Needed for computerized visa sticker.
2 x 2 inches in size, taken within the past 6 months.
Full face, front view with a plain white background, color photos.
Identical, not wearing a hat or headgear except for religious reasons.
Without dark glasses or glasses with tinted lenses, unless it is for medical reasons.
No composite photos.
Passport (original and photocopy) which must be valid for 6 months and with blank pages
Travel itinerary (date of arrival in and departure from Taiwan).
Please support your visa application with necessary documents for the various purposes of visiting Taiwan. Other additional documents may be required during processing. Please check the Bureau of Consular Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs website (www.boca.gov.tw) for detailed information (Please to go the English vision of the website and check the section for visa). For example, applicants for tourism visa should support their cases with return tickets, evidence of funds for traveling and living cost in Taiwan (for example, bank statements) and letter of their current employment in the US. For the purpose of visiting relatives, visa applicants should provide proof of relative's residence in Taiwan (for example, Household Registration, Alien Residence Certificate or Permanent Residence Certificate for spouse and relatives within 3-generation only) and documents that can prove the relationship (for example, Birth Certificate or Household Registration etc). For business visa, applicants should support their cases with evidence of business activities (such as letters from the employers stating the applicant's current job and assignment, invitation letters from Taiwanese companies, on-going letters, trading records (e.g. LC, remittance receipt...etc.) and details of the contact person in Taiwan (including name, address, telephone number...etc.). For those who hold dual citizenship of the US and the ROC (Taiwan), please present this office with proofs of their ROC citizenship (for example, ROC ID card, passport, or transcript of house registration, etc.).
Visa processing fee is $140 (for both visitor and resident visa and for single- and multiple-entry visa). You may pay cash. In case of application by mail, money order and certified checks are also acceptable. Please make the money orders or certified checks payable to: TECO New York (Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in New York)
For return mail service, please prepare self-addressed stamped return envelope for different categories of mail of your choice. Please be reminded that the visa application fee does not include the return postage, and make sure you add sufficient postage if you request this office to return by mail.
Mailing address and telephone number for this office is as follows:
TECO in New York,
1, East 42nd Street, 4th Floor,
New York, NY, 10017
Tel: 212-486-0088; Fax: 212-421-7866
