help to brainstorm:

best times to think:
shower
on the plane / while travelling
at a party
before sleeping
after waking up
just say, okay, it's time to think! Just have a topic handy--film, game, music.

watch jonathan blow speeches
create a system (a set of rules) first, observe it, get ideas from it, then make the game
look at topics - google list of topics
wikipedia things
write down everything in a handy journal

inspiration:
braid
between
aether
everyday shooter and his next game

neat:
pax brittanica - one button game

pvz

colorblind - simple puzzle
halycon - somple puzzle
shoot shoot shoot - no art, just blocks, but great concept!
4:33 - shows how a simple mechanic can make the entire game, that's "innovation"
hero test (portal parody) - a good sketch/parody
chance of a lifetime - very cool photography
crayon physics/cut it - simple physics games with great production
god puzzle game - use god abilities (lightning, wind) to guide a ball across safely


two player games like between, should have the sense of discovery

a game that displays working hard makes life go by faster

a game that tells the narrative through gameplay/discovery/intuition


iphone game:
a gesture game, the art of cooking, a calm rhythm gesture game, wave your fingers to add a pinch of salt, gesture five fingers inward to pick something up

a two player ipad game:
one side has various buttons - cockpit like buttons, flamethrower, a red button, a lever
one side is a platformer that needs the help of the other player.

game thought of while watching halycon:
user has a few abilities, build lines, circles, etc. to steer away invaders
OR
the user has to build a path for his character to go through

versus mode - try to kill opponent

gunstar heroes
a game that makes use of various guns
have a training level where a single enemy is always on screen
the idea is that a lot of the games i played in the past had a variety of weapons: contra, gunstar heroes, super mario (hammers!), castlevania: SOTN. I just felt like creating a a game with a bunch of cool weapons so I watch enemies dies in cool or hilarious ways. I mean didn't gunster heroes have a gun where the player controls the attack!? LOL. Loved that gun, even if it wasn't efficient.

Maybe the game could go further and be about combos, how long you can hold an enemy in the air.

Make it multiplayer!

Now you're playing volleyball with enemies, laying mines to which you estimate the enemy will fall, while a friend is using slow gun to give time for you to plant mines, while another friend is just shooting like a madman.

Add some art and bam, there's a profitable 2d platformer.

I know, not the most creative, but it was one of the few less ambitious ones that I felt would make a good first game for experience.

a jason rohrer like game
you live a normal day - eat, shower, work, eat, work eat, have fun, and sleep.
In order to have the energy to do these tasks that your family needs you have to take caffeine, cigarettes, carbs, go out drinking with friends and pick up more bad habits (cigarettes, cigars, weed).
Subtly in the background there are better paths, exercise, taking breaks, but they only give a little energy
You choose to live a high-low roller-coaster life or a peaceful life
If you choose the roller-coaster your family dislikes you, choose peaceful,  everyone is happy.

…sounds very tree of life like. But I LOVE the concept! Work on this…
mod the sims?

2d, make a house, and a workplace, get sprites form an online site? Press a button to pick up things

The game's help/the protagonists mind should lead you toward the terrible life. You, the player, have to find the right way to live.

Age goes by quickly in the game (only a few days)
a day shouldn't last long
keep playing until you die
die in a peaceful life (possibly with or without money) vs a hard-working life (possibly with or without money)

as you are guided to follow a bad life, it mirrors how the business/corporate world guides you along a bad life



new idea vs really quality aesthetic (angry birds)


Facebook connections diagram
food bingo - discounts for food, more expensive higher discount






_____ degrees of separation
people create games, private or public, choosing the topic (film, person, whatever)
display a graphical tree, robert de niro - ben stiller - robert downey jr - etc.
a chat room with buttons to play the game (or user can just enter the commands)

http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/six-degrees-of-separation/id351471052?mt=8


after watching key tumi
i should explore my parents backgrounds
when i get home, i'll scan all of those old photos and use some high tech website to embed to rahilpatel.com, get some inspiration, ask them questions about growing up, their thoughts and jobs, ask Dad if he had the same ambition as I do, he moved to the US with a few bags as I moved to the City with a few, ask if he wanted to become a motel owner, if he's artistic, maybe that's why he doesn't watch modern films, he just doesn't see the art it in, but maybe if i show him more indie media he'd love it. He has good taste in music too, that nawab background music is sweet, as are those old indian tunes.

i should make a film exaggerating the trek my Dad took to get to America. Make it epic. LOL. Worked hard in India, learned when got the chance to, came to America on a small boat, worked on railroads, bought a motel, etc.

learn Gujarati when i get home.

after watching Still Walking
Kore-eda writes a very rough storyboard, often changing things while filming it. Using his personal taste to choose what shots to take, how actors should move, and choice in dialogue. The process of shooting can be creative. You don't have to write an elaborate script then plainly shoot that. Many ideas may come up while shooting. Once you're at the setting with the cast, the script may not fit as visioned. Things will have to be changed.

Remember not only to shoot the action, but also the setting, or things around the action.

