
OLD: working schedule, not creative
ideal schedule:
//wake up when the sun comes up
morning routine
  - eat fibrous meal, drink lots of liquid
  - poop
  - cold shower in hot area, hot shower in cold area
commute/exercise (faux commute)/consume
1 hour of creativity, think about what to do today, and then begin
3 hours of good work
30min exercise
eat lunch (protein)
5 hours of good work
commute/exercise
eat a snack
more work or entertainment (something new and inspiring, or something great) or social
sleep on time to allow 8-9 hours of sleep

ideal work environment:
air conditioner
layers of clothing
ball chair, kneeling chair, normal chair, all at proper height
sunlight
people working
music
not where you live

Surround yourself with the greatest people.

Work must be innovative and of high quality.

When you are the most intelligent person in the current area, take lead, create action.

Focus on one thing at a time.

Experience great things, make great things.

Great work requires routine, a simple life, no distraction.

If you're not making something great, then you are doing nothing.

Should spend free time on the greatest things: great film, music, games, etc. This guarantees a great experience and inspiration. Although there is something to learn from every experience.

Make stuff whenever and wherever you are. Ask yourself, "What can I do right now?". Do not think you can't create something because you are limited in any way. You can create anything anywhere, with anyone. Local artists, friends, family, poor, strangers, anyone.

If you don't feel like cooking food, or want something different, go to a supermarket. They often have fresh food, similar to those at more expensive single shops, such as bakeries, traditional native restaurants (home-cooked), and convenience stores.

Don't go far out for food, just eat nearby, local, and cook if possible. Spending time on finding new food counts as consumption, leisure, entertainment.

Cook simply, like Ching. Use a small amount or no sugar and salt. Also use a small amount of spices, extracting most of the taste from the food. Buy whatever is cheap at the local supermarket, because it is likely in season.

Be extremely active all of the time, wherever you are. All arts. Enter contests, volunteer or work with local artists/collectives/media companies/museums.

Find great people and make stuff; Or go back to Babycastles.

Don't stop, like Babycastles. Take more projects than you can handle. Create more projects for yourself when you are idle.

Don't make it half-assed, just half-length.

Making should be fun.
  - Think Spryfox, Doodle Defense.

Make something great.

Keep your standards high.
  - Stay on the level of Jonathan Blow, Jenova Chen, Babycastles, Zack Leiberman, Zack Gage, Andy.

Don't let money stop you.

Money is just a number. One day you have 0, next a million.
  - Jonathan Blow

Make sure what you're doing is fun!

Get the design down first, then begin working. Don't do anything half-assed.

It's extremely important to think on a very high level, almost existential, like Jonathan Blow.

Stay active. Never stop.

When you do not have a current project, you have to find one. Get inspired to work again.

Keep going. Keep making things. Keep viewing life from a higher perspective. Don't let money waste your time. Don't let the lack of skills choose your project. Keep viewing art. Keep making art.

For creativity, choose eclectic media: Calvino, Fantastic Planet, etc. Something that would help the creative process.

MAKE A GAME TO EXPRESS FEELINGS. Ask yourself, "is the experience of playing the game meaningful? Did it move me?". If it can't do that, than it's not worth making. Make a game that can reach a global audience.

More on overcoming laziness:
You have to be aware of your current state of productivity at all times. Time yourself.  You will notice you aren't actually getting any work done. You are just reading old projects, not creating ones.

any time on transport, think of ideas

when you get the feeling of being cold and not wanting to do anything, that's when you need to exercise

when an idea come to mind, just go through with it, do it at that time or else it won't happen in the future

creativity flow: sit down with composition book, add constraints, think of ideas (use recently seen media as inspiration), elaborate the top few, create a project out of one, finish product, move on

after taking a break from work, I realize what I have to do, then I close off everything unimportant, and focus on a single thing

green life:
buy groceries from farmers' markets on Saturdays
if you eat out, eat something new from an unpopular local place
buy clothing from small local shops that do not manufacture clothes from sweatshops

wake up when the sun comes up

need direction
need todo list

it's important to only do things that are needed, no more.

get out of the house ASAP
work at Babycastles speed

Excercise. Go to a nearby cafe, library, or similar workplace. Eat protien


Keep making things and don't look back.

just do it. Don't over research. Only buy and learn things as you need to make an idea happen.

8 hours of work, 2 hours of creativity (split into two periods, best before sleeping, in the morning, after excercise, a little after lunch)

excercise when you lose a little conenctration, or at least take a break

only have one project going at a time

the more you isolate yourself, the more creative you become


track your time

http://www.personalitypage.com/INTJ.html

i still need to make todo lists to get shit done

lighting makes affects my sleep schedule. See some sunlight during the day and dim the lights before sleeping.

i focus on work better with other people around me (examples: living with Ivar, working at an office, working in a library)
but working in these environments, I don't think about family as much

spend one hour everyday for creativity

maybe i'm creative most of the day, and only focus at night because that is when I'm sleep deprived, unable to think critically, so I do busy work. Use this time to write!

music helps me focus on one thing. Restricts creativity, but removes ADD problems.
do not use music during creative times, just look at a blank paper or out of the window and think. Take breaks

sit up, helps focus

kinda old, found it in body.txt:

inspirational:
talk talk talk
surround self with admirable people
become a VP
feel good
stretch outside if it's hot
live/love life
enjoy life*****
Henry is a database programmer that earns 90k and on the weekends he enjoys life. Goes out, drinks, doesn't worry about work. That's the way it should be. But you can only do that once you have chosen a career I haven't.
always think on a high level

from a paper:
enjoy life
take action/leadership
sleep on time
talk to people
focus
force self to be happy, especially around others or in public
feel good
strech
dance
talk talk talk
laugh
take breaks
make a core group of a friends

from agenda:
don't lose track!
focus on career and entertainment
all that matters: career, travel once per year, family, close friends, girlfriend, no more shit jobs--quit early


sleeping on time makes a huge difference in mood!
avoid black tea, not good for my stomach, ends up in bad stools
do not eat less than two hours before sleeping, just fight the hunger off and have a big breakfast
run/exercise at around 5-7pm
work 8 hours everyday

end body.txt


no music before sleeping, just busy work, programming
if I have work to do, make a todo list of 30 minute tasks and do them, taking breaks between to re-energize, to think about the big picture



Just keep moving forward. Don't worry about organizing/documenting the past.

Always keep a to do list, but also take time off to be creative

Think big and GO!

Don't choose something you know how to do, explore. Try something new.

Never comprimise. Don't take a job around the thing you want to do. 

Find or concieve a project that I am interested it, then do it. It's as simple as that.

make sure you have a current project you are very interested in

take the time to cook real meals, not quick small meals

partake on large adventures, not small ones. Don't go to a nearby small city event, climb a mountain!

On a personal level, the INTJ who practices tolerances and puts effort into effectively communicating their insights to others has everything in his or her power to lead a rich and rewarding life.

only make time for the greatest arts

http://nofilmschool.com/2011/03/hours-dont-lie-tracking-time/

http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2006/04/your-personal-brand.html
start building your personal brand:
You need to be working on something that is remarkable or be remarkable yourself. In other words, you need to be working on your "personal brand."
lead a user group
create a popular open-source project
write a blog
publish a book
publish articles
speak at conferences

art medium learning process
contest and/or freelance for practice
think big, create the first or greatest or sincere
go by feeling

if you choose small projects, then you will lose interest quickly

choose a big goal, think it through clearly, THEN start working.
1 complete game is better than 4 game prototypes
but remember, prototyping can lead to discoveries and/or emergent gameplay

do everything well
step back
think clearly

make short to do lists and use the pomodoro technique

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique

http://gamedev.stackexchange.com/questions/8481/fight-with-creativity-burnout
http://gamedev.stackexchange.com/questions/16640/how-to-get-a-game-done

JR: Can you give us a one-sentence definition of art? In other words, how do you differentiate works of entertainment from works of art?

JB: There are a lot of things that we call art right now, and if I provide a one-sentence definition it will exclude some things that we consider art. Some people use definitions like "anything that is not necessary for survival," and if you like that, that's great, but for me it seems too broad to be useful. For the purposes of what I'm doing, it's: the expression of something the artist feels important or interesting, with the hope that the expression resonates with an audience in a deep way.

spend 90% of the time creating and 10% experiencing other's creations

Do it because you want to -Louie, Blow, Pogo

Life Goals / Philosophy
1. Do what I want to
2. Live a simple life
3. Help others achieve 1 and 2

see how my favorite stars made it

print this once it's a page long


don't get distracted from your projected path! Catch yourself and get back on track. Get re-inspired, watch a movie.
don't make think of get rich quick ideas, go for creativity

5/28
anything worthwhile takes time to do. There is now easy way to it.

5/31
note to self: think everything through [with a clear head] before starting.

x.
everyone has ideas, but only a few take the time to do it right because the just want money. It takes motivation and work to do it the right way.

Pick Something – Anything – and Use It
All platform options employ some common concepts, and becoming proficient in any approach will improve your ability to pick up other methods. Any answer is better than indecision. Choose a development method, accept (and work with) its particular challenges, and make some videogames.

talk and do it

Game development necessitates 3 things: motivation, time, and talent. Without motivation you won't make time for game development. And without time, talent is meaningless. But without any talent you might as well be a carrot.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Analysis_paralysis

separate the important and not important

being open

finish projects. Take that time to polish the project and complete it. Leave nothing unfinished, unless it's just bad.

be ascetic

http://gamasutra.com/view/feature/174375/the_great_catch_becoming_the_.php?page=1
- in our trade, being good means how well you articulate your art fundamentals around the vision and execute the work technically through your medium, within an acceptable amount of time, in a collaborative work environment."

