Random
Mandarin class
Buy domains like Chinese groupon
Casual dress shoes
Book of Mormon
Raekwon
Spinach salad
Bummy Psychology
Lunch Box like Indian metal
Rahil is holy/holi music video. Indie, MIA.
Add rating to reviews. Link to netflix ratings. Start rating music.
Put aside some money in stock?
Oxford shoes in black or brown or tan!
Dad shoes in green mix
All black thin sneaker with yellow laces
drum machine
RP cuff links
Zara And h&m email subscription
Zi8, cAnon, nikon DSLR
Vimeo videoshoot
The archive
Music videos
Listen to music and use iPhone to make videos
Tripod, dolly
Billie holiday
Heavily edit one video
Split into thirds and combine
Buy stock in favorite companies
Take better photos
Size 6 womens. 13-13.5 neck. 26 waist. 33-34 suit
Thin belt
YesStyle
Ubliqo
Move to a warmer climate
Work at cafes


Who estimates coding?

Draw out the software process
Problems
Improvement

The most important problem is not being solved. Why care about anything else?

Cheese tortolinni

Tether and use laptop outside. Unlock iPhone? Cons?

Combine video games film and music

News ordered by importance. One page. Make this happen.

News timeline. Gather information from wikipedia.

Japanese sweet potato

Music video. Video first.

Create a logo and signature

Blazer and jackets like Dionel

90s toonami crossfire nostalgia over childhood tv. Use daft punk as toonami robot. Use real life dialogue of kids enthusiastic about tv episodes. Use commercials, any cartoon. Make a light comedy or ridiculous bu make sure it feels real, nostalgic. 3 generations discussing about my generation's cartoons. About how stupid it was. Secretly missing it. Look out the window after downtalking the cartoons with friends. Dialogue matching or segue to video. 

Could use real footage of tv or make my own.

Or have generations compete for which is best.

Apollo brown

You will learn that one can either surrender responsibility for ones action to the rest of the social organism, or that one can take control by flexing the muscles of the will common to us all, affecting our environment positively and responsibly.

Pin hoodie to make a suit

Vitacoco

Fruit or veggie smoothies or just buy trader joes

Blue gold jeans

Startups, jobs in creative fields, public transportation, weather, film, music

Soy energy blend ann's house

Video game music like Ragnarok

Cities with diverse population, good public transit, creative schools and jobs.

Living in the city satisfied my hunger. My hunger for variety, diversity, creativity. I've experienced the lifeless corporate life. Now, I need to focus on the real stuff--a career and a girl.

Technical jobs require intelligence, patience, a clear head, and passion. Creative jobs require an idea and the ambition to follow through with it.

Is it possible to have three careers and be successful at all of them? Maybe if I get to the point of success for one, I can then try another.


Keep watching, listening, playing, and thinking. Don't work for More than 8 hours unless I love it. All that time I dug deep into the Internet to find amazing media counts a experience. I can separate quality from cliche with ease.

Watchmen comic with real photos.

Take video, then make a comic out of it. Could even use a movie.

Can mix movie frames and real life frames.

Kids playing superhero. Then use movie frames.

Alternate frames like watchmen chapter one. Start with kids only frames.

Spend 4 hours doing. Website, filmmaking, music making, going through with ideas, game making

All contests

Movie about the psychology of a kid which makes his or her mother send him or her to a foster home. End with foster paper process, credits on the papers.

Media with less content but more quality is better than the opposite. This applies to indie games, short films, and probably even in poems or short stories. Often creative ideas are pitched within these short media.

Is it because the public is exposed to 1 and a half hour movies that they find 30 minute and 4 hour films radical? What is it that makes people think that anything away from the standard is bad or weird? Is it because they want to fit in and agree with their friends, afraid of straying away? Afraid of being different.

Is there a genetic difference between creative people and everyone else? Or is everyone creative, but people restrain their creativity to fit the normal social construct.

Donald Glover repeatedly says in his raps, "I'm different," as an advantage over others.

I agree. Being different has an advatange over being the same.

I wonder if this attributes to my loner personality. I enjoy everything without the need of sharing with friends. I don't need someone to go out and eat or watch a movie. Gladly I have creative friends that agree with a good portion of ideas, and have their own opinions on the things we don't agree upon. Yet, we can appreciate each others opinions.

Appreciation. That's what it's about. Appreciating differences.

For example, my dad is able to appreciate me. He allowed me to do the things I want with little interference. I'm the oddball of the family, and he's okay with it.   Never forcing me to follow the guidelines. Or maybe I just kept constantly breaking the guidelines and he became as I am the third child.

Holy crap. No more caffiene for me. This is nuts.

There was a kid on the bus that was talking to his friend. He was wearing a purple hoodie. He said, I like things that people don't have. His friend argued, that's impossible [somebody else has to have it]. The kid asked, do you like bazookas? his friend said yeah, everyone likes bazookas. He replied, then I like pistols. His friend argued somebody else also likes pistols, but I understand what you mean.

These are high school kids, but the idea is the same. They're different, but they appreciate each other.

Appreciate others. Learn why people like or do the things they do. Never judge anybody because they are different.

The people who can appreciate different people are the people that were able to get close to me.

Off color light blue pants

Love. Be both graceful and peaceful.

Purge and begin life--art and loving.

Choose an idea and go with it. Can stop midway, still get the experience

Just observe art, make art, and love life.

What's the point of learning if you're not using that knowledge?

Scavenger hunt for cities

Cooking with ingredients chosen. Just use a search engine.

Living legends
The grouch

Yahoo forward
Khan academy
Try jonathan blow inspired game

Mini Indiana jones hat

Exercise, Art, and family/friends

Practice piano scales and favorite music

Organizational behavior built in a suburban lifestyle. Infinite things to do list, which sidetracked me from the larger things to do. I had to fight that off and focus on what's important.

Make a media that is universal. No words, just pictures.

Help mom by exercise and protien diet.

Google analytics game prototype

Duck tape - open windows when panning over the bed and passing them by

The amount of items moving should crescendo

Add a tiny keyboard scene in the background

Microwave, satellite dish, citizenship form copy

88.1 fm

Corea, Bobby mcferrin

A real social game that displays different social aspects, such as a player at a drinking scene or at a more nerdy scene or school

Insanity

The life story of our parents

World famous lessons in jazz

Loop a day of time-lapse film. Sun and moon rise and fall. Bugs and animals pass by.

After I am settled think about film ideas for contests. Then after a few of those, do a personal short film.

Film about being different. Use dialogue from kid on the bus. Also use personal experience. In school, at home, with friends.

Just now realizing people work 9-5s...Their whole life. Is this a proper way to live? I mean how much work does it take to live self sufficiently,. I'm guessing much less than 40 hours.

That's the tough part. 9-5. For what? To feed the family. To live. Have to work to live?

Everyone is too busy to help someone else. Even during another's emergency, people do not stop to help. Dazed, occupied, and worn from their life. Unable to strive for anything else. Wasted energy.

Film contests. See winners. Choose one with long deadline. Buy equipment. Join filmmaker meetups.

For my personality, I cannot live too closely with another. I need space so that I can personally choose and enjoy things. Otherwise I would feel limited, in choice and speed.

Need to tell Ivar 

Find film groups. Enter contests. Similar interests.

Filmmaking, art for those who cannot draw. See art in the real world.

Are people so lifeless? Without the will to make a decision for themselves? They just follow the common path to drinking at a club? How. Was drinking something that started in ancient times and people followed this path since? How do people get to this point?

Or is it that people work long hours for something insignificant to them, that they must relax on the weekends to make up for it?

Whats the psychology of an average person? Is it really simple? Do they not see a way out? Is this their perspective of life?

Film about how useless the average life is. How it negatively affects then environment. To display their life and put it in perspective.

Need a day job to struggle, to remember how miserable the average job is, to inspire the individual to do something more creative/personal.

Wasting time toward something you don't feel is productive. Wasting life.

Write a poem about discovering the better life. My difficulty with beginning to create things.

Shadow puppets film. Can change sets too. Use shadows as a theme.

Must begin art ASAP. Buy a mic and camera. Buy krill oil.

Write a simple script/screenplay and just do it.

Test video/audio.

Learn gujurati and Spanish

Indian fried chicken franchise

Documentary about indie gaming, jonathan blow speeches, minecraft guy, etc

Document what your personally interested in. Like indie games, social culture/stereotypes

Documentary about the beorgouise psychology. 21st century. Explore the main characteristics of them--consumerism, mass media, etc.

How do you fight mass media? Do you let the world go as is, on it's own destructive path and only worry about yourself? Or should I be helping my brother and sister to see what life can be? Explain to Dad that fox news is terrible.

Tiny victories

Loop pedals and dance choreography using them

Killing screen

What was it that made me get bad grades in college? Uninterested in the subject? More interested in other things? Bland professors and courses?

I had a thought that stated: having a large house isolates the individual into each room, similar to the way the suburb isolates each family. Space is nice to have, but it should be optional. I think most people would benefit from living with others.

A film about racism. The association of black people and being an extrovert ignorant. Shooting themselves in their feet. Then show an ignorant white person, stereotyping all black people to be this way. Show how other black, white, and other races react.

Wikileaks wiki article

A film about lifestyles, in a sprawling fashion similar to tree of life. Show the life of different ethnicities (enclaves), in the house, outside, at work, free time. Show different classes. Rich white, poor black, middle hispanic, bergiose asian.

A short film about a day in life of an artist and of a buergiose. Half each. Cut back an forth between both. Can use Ivar for the artist part.

Artist film > borgiose film > artist end > borgiose end.

At the end of the artist film, show the artist failing. At the end of the borgiose film, show the borgiose neither failing or winning. At the artist end, the artist succeeds. At the borgiose end, the borgiose neither succeeds or fails, but feels unfulfilled, dreams of becoming an artist.

Muchi
Kyotoya
Things Japanese
Seasons
Mitsuwa

1. Get job
2. Clean Room
3. Film/Game
4. Furnish Room

Sword umbrella, Chinese jacket

List of countries by GDP or hdi

Documentary about the mind set of low income black people, like Enver's twitter.

Add Alvin and Joyce

In my ideal life, I am a simple living artist. I do not care about what the world thinks of me, or each other. I only care about myself and the few people I value. This apathy is something more than just introvert. It may be the cause of me being an introvert!

Short film, music vid? Start zoom into a funky object, ex. Casserole, ever slowly zooming out to reveal..? Start in a fast food joint's burger

Make fruit smoothies/

Baby Mario. Super bar, not possible to achieve. Yoshi becomes fatigues before he can save baby mario. Intro with yoshi getting hit by a goomba and losing Mario. Make the art myself, like braid.

Higher quality espadrilles

A samurai never drinks enough to dull his wits.

See you're g

Must wait at the end to win.

The truth is that the world tries to constrain you to be a nobody, a jack of all trades. It is up to you, the individual, to find your own way in life.

Classical music

A typing game in which the words are said aloud. When you mess up, the narrator gets angry.

The reason NYC Is dirty is because people don't care to keep it clean. People only care about themselves, and their own business. The extra effort to clean requires cost they're not willing to pay. Things only need to work, it doesnt matter how well, as long as it works.

This is different from the suburbs, most asians, and hippies.  A different personality with different priorities.

A game or film about the relationship of very different people. Boring hard working introvert vs carefree extrovert. Me and Ivar. The feelings that go through after not finding an apartment, compromising, feeling like waste after not working.

Add a timer when you are within range. The pretty ones timer is infinite.

A game or film in which the characters are so abstract that they feel universal, especially a family.

Should be able to market a good game easily. It markets it itself.

A game about the movements and psychology of bergiose, like the attraction game. How consumerism works. How the mass media shapes society

The beorgiosie do enjoy the things an individual does, they just don't make the first move. Someone has to tell them what to do, mass media or word of mouth. These sources are somehow prioritized over their own opinion.

What brand watch is that?
Casio
Ew, nevermind.

The beourgiosie do not have an opinion. They do whatever people tell them.

if all you ever create/do is for the purpose of entertainment, then the the industry/humans will never progress

Sapana: ewwww. They dont know how to dance (at new orlean hipster crowd).
What characteristics make their dance bad? Because their movement is not smooth? What do you define as a good dancer? She likes the characteristics portrayed by popular society, and finds anything different as ugly.

Even white participation dance songs cater to the uncreative public.

Maybe if I just list things that I never found enjoyable or cool would coincide with things that are not creative.

Broadway is possibly the worst of mainstream entertainment...

People say you have to like what you do. I think you should do. And you do it because thats what you want to do at that moment in time.

A single skill or element at an extreme level is not good enough. The entire product must be good, showcasing the skill as a climactic point. Similar to what Blow said about 'finishing your game'.

Oh yeah, tourism. That's very beorgoisie. A creative person would rather live in another country.

Platformer in which the player controls the stage to guide the character across.

Drink, smoke, attend a family cruise and not see the family, go on a cruise and not attend any events or excursions, buy a 3200 watch...

If I grew up in a family in which my relatives did not drink, would I find people with similar personalities to them disgusting?

A game about capitalism. Perhaps sim cruise? Organize events, place rooms, hire staff. The goal of the game would be to maximize profit yet keep people happy. Charge people for DVDs for event showings, charge for soda, or even water. Place suites next to a casino and charge more.

I never really understood why traditional art masterpieces were. But after getting into film and other arts through life, then seeing traditional art again, I see it differently. In a different perspective. I now appreciate the artist more, being one myself. I understand the struggle, the personality, the significance.

Being technically skilled means nothing without originality.

A film about a family vacation. Eh, would be similar to Walking Life. The kids and adults separate, unable to even set a single lunch together.

The kids have fun, rarely talking about current life problems/aspirations, relaxing, enjoying, never wanting the surreal vacation to end. They talk, learning more about each others personalities.

The suburban kids act more conservatively than the city kids, but still put up with each other. The city kids have more energy, waking up, working out, able to enjoy, being irresponsible. The suburban kids sleep earlier, but are more responsible.

The kids that drink separate from the kids that don't. The drinking kids primarily drink at the same places, eat the same things, go to the casino to pass time, but try to attend major events, unsure if they enjoyed it (often art). The kids that don't drink try to pack as many things they haven't done before, following a set schedule, using every opportunity, wasting no time.

[from my perspective] The parents say (tell the kids) they enjoyed the vacation overall. Some excursions are awful commercial experiences, but just being together is enough to have fun for them. The event/excursion barely matters, similar to the drinking kids. Many live a sedentary life, so are physically unfit limiting their choice in excursions. Yet, they are satisfied. Maybe not as exuberant about it as they were kids, but happy nonetheless.

In the end, everyone leaves, giving their goodbyes several times, resuming life as normal.

The family appears to be impolite to society, but they are composed of genuinely great individuals. Have scenes of the kids being loud/obnoxious using a third person view. The people around feeling annoyed. Then use a first/second person view, in which the viewer finds them enjoyable with good morals.

Scenes 

The more personal art is, the more realistic it becomes.

It seems I'm gravitating toward Picasso's lifestyle. Working nonstop toward something greater than me. Unable to hold a relationship. Living desolately, unknowingly, only known through my work.

A film in which the characters and/or setting becomes progressively more consumerist/stupid stupor. Start normal/creative, end slave. Possibly a fictional film.

Or a film in which the character progressively realizes everything is done for capitalism. For example, at a cruise, the character starts by booking it as it is not expensive and fits the family's time. The cruise staff appears to be friendly, "wakey wakey, eggs and bacey", but then they begin to sell DVDs, diamonds, art, fresh juice, bingo, casino. They'd do anything to maximize the profit of the company. Nice on the outside, evil by enforcement of then company.

Or a film of the life of a consumerist. Seeing consumerism applied at different stages of life.

When you are a child, you would spend time on now seemingly silly things, such as creating a huge house out of cards. Later, you realize, those things arent silly, they're more important than anything else you are doing.

Talk to people. It's the only way to gauge my attraction.

Learn to make milk tea

Learn to make avocado shake

Look at some art books at the Pratt library

Game dev, film, drawing, music at  Pratt

Black socks, black boots, light blue pants

Lightning instead of lines. Thunder sounds. Electrical theme. Clouds or atom with electron for the player. Flash trajectory, then solidify over time?

Gradient laser extends with a white gradient in the front. Player is invincible to own hotbox for a few ms.

Options to adjust screen size, no bounds.

As the line grows, the player can still shoot a portal toward it.

To set portal click button to shoot, then click again to deploy.

Dual analog controller or wasd and left/right to move electron.

Always show trajectory?

Remove one portal to let the other portal eat bullets. One portal is a black hole.

4 player arcade cabinet, xbox arcade, babycastles, option to scale

The stage should be scalable to infinite, and the players should be infinite, multiplayer

Buy a mic for film AND music!

Use halo color order for players: red, blue, green, etc.

Portal deployer should be the color of the player.

Portals should be the color of the player. Just portal and other portal?

iPhone photo contest. iPhone video contest. Cell phone contests.

Check poetry/spoken word competitions. Themes?

Photo/video contests in NYC.

Add light, dark, player color glows to the ship to signify cooldowns

Fold instantly or slowly. Requires the player to have better coordination.

Another game that simulates life, especially the part that makes the player's experience dependent on their actions, in a more complex way than good vs evil choice.

If the player is lazy, maybe he develops health problems. If the player is explorative, he will see new things. If the player is studious, the game plays normally, as the creator wants you to.

Use my own graphics. Stick figures!

Write spoken word poems. Read them in public in Pratt. Video tape it. Upload to my website. Perform at an open mic.

Think of costume, then a way to kill.

Pirate, slice the pirate, not the parrot. Or his peg leg. Make the slice line very thin.

Ghost, cannot be sliced, need a light to see? Two red or white dots for eyes, the rest is invisible.

Mummy, requires to be sliced multiple times, each time animating the costume removal animation.

Giant, slice the legs.

Create a game over screen with stats. Save stats and add a leaderboard. An infinite mode, in addition to story mode? Then add to Kongregate?

Buy a sketchpad to draw on. Start with pencil. Then try coloring. Traditional art. Then buy a drawing tablet and use the images in the game.

Shiny black pants?

Portal asteroids stage grows as more players join.

Bird courage. City of the sun,

Multislice or shake gesture to kill mummy.

Old navy white khaki pants, like my gray pair.

Chinese jacket. Trenchcoat.

Change global rate to change the speed of the game! 

Kar wai soundtracks

Off color new balances

It seems the American dream is possible. I never dreamt it, but it's nice to know it's not completely fake.

Ive always felt I could make something great, but I had troubles figuring out how to start. Now, after just dabbling with a hobby/art, I feel it's very much possible. Still, I can only make something great if I feel the idea is worth the time and work, or else I won't feel motivated.

I can even write better rap than kanye and mf doom. Try it, for fun. No music necessary. Perform it at open mics.

Upload the source code to the real ninja

I feel I may never be motivated to go through with a large project. I just want to think of ideas and make small media that express them. That's a problem. Maybe with the help of a friend or team I would be more determined to go through with it? Nah I don't need anyone, I just need to man up. But how can you embark on a large project, spending that much time? I guess I've wasted the past years,  so time really shouldnt be what I'm worried about. Just keep going. I believe im on the right path. Start small, never stop, and I'll get to large projects later.

For games: make a polished prototype and send it to IGF. For small games that I can complete, release it for free, if it's well received, make a complete version and sell it.

For film: make a polished short film, submit it to contests. If its well received, then I guess publishers would be willing to invest in me, or offer some projects?

After working/spending time on arts, finding oneself, I can see why one could wonder, what are they doing? Shouldn't I be spending quality time with the family? Then again, the time spent on art, is better than any time spent at a 9-5, so it's not bad.

What better inspiration then an artist singing their heart out at a local cafe?

Yea, don't worry about the future, just keep doing what I am. When the lease end I'll know whether I want to stay in NYC, go home, go back to SF, or to another city or country.

The flex. The flexing of strings. The physics of it. The reactions of a system once tampered. Could create music, indefinitely, in a vacuum.

Our of the sky. Clouds, birds, sun, blue sky. 

Join a 7 day film contest!!!!!!!! Experimental.

1. Redo voiceovers
2. Finish advantage
3. Help Jon with whiskers?
4. Make my own 4 player iPad game?

Forget this, I need 9 hours of sleep.