https://www.quora.com/What-does-a-hippie-do-to-earn-money
  - “Here are some things we did in the 1970s when I was a freak. That’s what we called ourselves, not hippies.

Drove cabs. Berkeley had its Taxi Unlimited, with the motto “No shirt, No Shoes, No Tie.”
Repaired musical instruments. My father, although he was an old beatnik rather than a freak or hippie, lived among hippies and at the Placitas commune. He worked on electric guitars, adjusted truss rods, levelled the frets, etc.
Programmed computers. The early hobbyist computers attracted a do-it-yourself crowd of longhairs.
Sold drugs. Generally this meant marijuana.
Worked in coffee houses. Owned coffee houses.
Waited tables.
Cooked in restaurants. This often meant wearing a hairnet to meet health department regulations.
Performed music. Gave music lessons.
Ran small businesses, like bookstores and record stores.
Read the tarot for money.
Did translation work—those who travelled a lot often spoke and read several languages.
Worked at carnivals and state fairs.
Were photographers and filmmakers.
Were teachers and college professors.
Wrote and illustrated and sold books of poetry and underground comix.
Farmed.
Went to sea as merchant seamen.
Roadies and stage crew for rock and folk concerts.
Tuned pianos.
Were massage therapists and Rolfers.
Were rock n roll promoters.
Had fruit orchards.”


  - “To sum up the other answers, most of them are small scale formal and informal entrepreneurs.”


https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/2x0m9e/eli5_how_did_the_hippy_generation_afford_to/
  - “How did the hippy generation afford to travel cross country and enjoy the hippy lifestyle without having careers?”
  - “There were two brands of hippies. The rich ones who were enjoying the lifestyle to piss off their parents and after a few years would return home and get a job through their network. My parents hung out around these types - they got a car for their college present and then skipped class to go follow around Grateful Dead, and my broke-hippie dad and his friends would pile in the car.
Broke hippies did their thing by generally doing odd jobs here and there, and taking advantage of how cheap food and crappy lodgings were. Sleep in a car, go to the gas station deli and pay a dollar for a sandwich big enough for 2 meals, etc. Sharing culture also helped out a lot; not only were drugs cheap as hell, people would generally be happy to share what they had.
You also have to factor in that you didn't really need any type of financial means to have sex as a guy. Not that you "need" to spend money to get laid today, not by any means, but most guys today do feel the need to make enough money to buy nice clothes, have a decent car, have a decent job, and be able to take her somewhere other than Subway. Trying to have a good sex life if you're broke today (and not selling drugs) is not easy. Back then it was.
As Dave Chappelle said, if a guy can fuck a chick in a cardboard box, he's not going to buy a house. Hippies could meet all of their needs - food, drugs, somewhere to sleep, and people to fuck - without spending too much money. If you could get a decent gig for a few months doing some oddball job, you could save up and finance a hippie lifestyle for the remainder of the year.
And if you got in with some rich hippies - who unlike the rich kids of today were not that cliquish at all - you'd be a part of a mixed group where some people had money, some people didn't, and few fucks were given because people shared decently well.”
  - The hippy lifestyle is fairly inexpensive, and the phrase "Gas, grass, or ass" sums up the trading that would go on. It doesn't take much money to get a cheap car driving around, and sleeping in the car cuts down on costs.