great judgement
able and willing to learn quickly
always happy
eccentric
good taste in media - seeks originality
silly/ridiculous
fun, loud, crazy?
artsy







My self-summary

I recently moved from New York City. I stay up late for no reason. I still get really excited whenever I learn something new or watch fireworks. You will sometimes find me at rock shows, art museums, hospitals, record stores, bookstores, cafes, and sitting on the grass. I take a lot of pictures of food and the sky on my phone because looking at both of those things makes me happy.
What I'm doing with my life

Learning to be a doctor; I hope to get good at this someday, and that what I do will make a difference. For now, I spend a lot of time doing odd things like looking up my classmates' noses, poking at brains, and learning to tie knots with one hand. I love that talking to strangers will be built into my job. I was incredibly excited when I got to buy a reflex hammer with which to hit my friends in the knees, although that's not the primary reason why I do what I do. (It's up there, though.)
I play bass and write music, paint and do yoga, toss a frisbee around outside when it's warm. I started glassblowing last year. I'm truly terrible at it, but I can't stop, and now I'm one step away from pyromania. I also just started a vinyl collection. So far I have only three records but I'm still really excited about this. Sometimes I look forward to being old because by then my house will be very full of records and my head will be very full of stories of how and why I got each one.
I did some animation in college. Drawing frames over and over again was my favorite way to clear my head, and there's nothing quite like finally playing back a few seconds of film and watching your drawings move for the first time. That's also what I liked about working in a research lab in the years before I came to med school; it's a similar pattern where methodical process gives way to the little joy of discovering something small and new. (Also, because science experiments are kind of like cooking, except with awesome chemicals.)
I'm really good at

scrabble
making mix tapes (evidence: http://8tracks.com/lastmohican)
making guacamole
finding typos
The first things people usually notice about me

I look like this cat http://images.whatport80.com/images/2/23/Limecat_not_pleased.jpg
Favorite books, movies, shows, music, and food

One Hundred Years of Solitude, Mrs. Dalloway, Anna Karenina, the Unbearable Lightness of Being, Winesburg Ohio, short stories by Borges, poems by Rilke, Stevens, Frost. Also webcomics, because I am a nerd.

Pulp Fiction, Lost in Translation, Chungking Express or anything by Wong Kar-Wai, Grizzly Man or anything by Herzog, Princess Mononoke or anything by Miyazaki, music videos and animated shorts. I think Wall-E is really romantic. I think Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is really sad. I may or may not be joking when I say that Pineapple Express is a fine piece of cinema. Sometimes I just want to watch a dumb action movie.

The Daily Show, It's Always Sunny, 30 Rock, House, Damages. Planet Earth and pretty much every other nature documentary that David Attenborough and the BBC have ever made.

Sleater-Kinney, the Tallest Man on Earth, Joanna Newsom, the Mountain Goats, Marnie Stern, Mates of State, Screaming Females, the National, Daft Punk, Le Tigre, Zola Jesus, and terrible pop music if I'm in a bad mood. Lately, I also listen to This American Life and the Moth and Radiolab while doing my dishes or falling asleep.

I like picnics, breakfast, and ethnic food. I eat my vegetables. I will probably want to cook with you.
The six things I could never do without

my memory
surprises
transportation
headphones in my bag
a book by my bed
a calculator (terrible at mental math)
I spend a lot of time thinking about

People I like. Things that I think are strange, beautiful or complicated. How the hell the human body works.
On a typical Friday night I am

escaping to SF.
The most private thing I'm willing to admit

I'm really ticklish.

Send her a message!
