
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Dean
mother works 2-4 jobs, has many diseases and still helps anyone
step brother suicided
hates dad - took custody of sister
1st GF raped by older brother at age 14


ivar's haiku

once, at the Garden...

...

"SOME GUY ________
...he had a mohawk!

he ordered wine, white
but it smelled brown
realized, then red

brawl vs melee vid
can't get no satisfaction

from pandora
the kinks
the herbaliser

27-50mph incline
50-55mph peak
default - .\<Artist> - <Title>
normal - C:\Documents and Settings\Rahil\My Documents\My Music\3organized\<Artist>\<Year> - <Album>\<Track#:2> - <Title>
various - C:\Documents and Settings\Rahil\My Documents\My Music\3organized\<Year> - <Album>\<Track#:2> - <Artist> - <Title>

\ for local
/ for remote

ctrl+double click folder to open in new window
shift+double clock folder to open in new window with directory sidebar

(10:27:29 PM) Neil Monday: what do you usualy get at wendys?
(10:28:08 PM) Neil Monday: I always get the #6 combo with a doctor pepper. probably 1/100 times ill get a 3/4 lb combo
(10:28:36 PM) Me: side ceasar salad (it has bacon!), chicken nuggets or just a #1 single
(10:28:55 PM) Joel: That sounds good, Neil.
(10:29:01 PM) Joel: Rahil, that makes you a faggot.

 Simple Guidelines

    * Avoid frequent full discharges because this puts additional strain on the battery. Several partial discharges with frequent recharges are better for lithium-ion than one deep one. Recharging a partially charged lithium-ion does not cause harm because there is no memory. (In this respect, lithium-ion differs from nickel-based batteries.) Short battery life in a laptop is mainly cause by heat rather than charge / discharge patterns.

    * Batteries with fuel gauge (laptops) should be calibrated by applying a deliberate full discharge once every 30 charges. Running the pack down in the equipment does this. If ignored, the fuel gauge will become increasingly less accurate and in some cases cut off the device prematurely.

    * Keep the lithium-ion battery cool. Avoid a hot car. For prolonged storage, keep the battery at a 40% charge level.

    * Consider removing the battery from a laptop when running on fixed power. (Some laptop manufacturers are concerned about dust and moisture accumulating inside the battery casing.)

    * Avoid purchasing spare lithium-ion batteries for later use. Observe manufacturing dates. Do not buy old stock, even if sold at clearance prices.

    * If you have a spare lithium-ion battery, use one to the fullest and keep the other cool by placing it in the refrigerator. Do not freeze the battery. For best results, store the battery at 40% state-of-charge. 

(12:06:15 AM) Me: ugh, i still dont like how the academy crams all the foreign films into one category
(12:06:48 AM) Me: there are soo many good ones in there that could wreck in other categories
(12:07:24 AM) Ivar: dont worry man
(12:07:39 AM) Ivar: it'll be re-made into enlgish and be half as good
(12:07:42 AM) Ivar: and still win
(12:07:46 AM) Me: :'(
(12:07:53 AM) Me: god, that hurt my feelings
(12:07:55 AM) Ivar: :-P:-(:'(
(12:08:01 AM) Me: hahahahah
(12:08:03 AM) Ivar: i died a little too
(12:08:07 AM) Me: that's exactly wat happened
(12:08:17 AM) Me: realization


Andrew Prosser wrote at 2:51pm
No sir. And watch yourself-in Japan, they call me "Hadouken" because I am DOWNRIGHT FIERCE.


(11:16:26 PM) rahil627 hrmmm i enjoyed all of 'los campesinos!', cut copy's in ghost colours, portishead's third, koushik's out my window, shugo tokuumaro's exit
(11:16:36 PM) rahil627 cd's not songs =/

(11:19:24 PM) rahil627 if u didnt pick up m83's 2008 cd...umm deer hunter, buena vista social club, the ruby suns, animal collective, oh and i think ya missed TV on the radio so get both cds XD

future thoughts
part-time entry-level positions at big companies
freelancer-like jobs for smaller companies - make website, database, etc.
indie job - fix computers, buy upgrades, etc.
take GRE
get dream job in california

Man, the worst thing I ever got was a Dell. Oh well, off to chemo.


"cooler than the other side of the pillow" -comment on le samurai


anis mojgoni
rock out like you are enslaved in the south and dancing is all that you have to know who you are

feet are smarter than an engine
dreams are stronger than thighs
[found this mindnumbing. implies dreams go beyond physical strength?]

just like the days, i burn at both ends

and a thought that the museums are cemetaries where the dead pay the walls to hold what we have so we can walk through what we once were
when the hangman of morrow comes to hang the sun in it's daily execution
howl open mouth terror love filled ?

MF DOOM
explanation of "everyday is mystery meat" by MF Doom
Mystery meat is some shit kids call the nasty food in cafeterias that know one really knows what it is. The song that mentions mystery meat is on dooms album MM Food, he says "every week is mystery meat" meaning everyweek he's serving you some raw unexpected shit.

Killin fields need blood to graze the cash cow, its a number game but shit dont add up somehow ...

Heat niner, pimping, stripping, soft sweet minor
China was a neat signer, trouble with the script digits
Double dip/bubble lips, subtle less midget

Gun toting strips an underage asian girl. Her penmanship was neat, but there was trouble getting her number? She also thick, ample, and short.

The worst hated God who perpetrated odd favors
demonstrated in the perforated Rod Lavers
in quad flavors...
lawd save us!

"The kind of comedy where funny people say funny things in funny situations, not the kind of comedy that whacks you with manic shocks to force an audible Pavlovian response." -Roger Ebert

since the light takes 13 billion years to reach Earth from these galaxies, the image we see actually depicts a time when the Universe was only 800 million years old. [big bang theory]

a dreamer, a procrastinator
a perfectionist, a gamer, an introvert, a nerdy digger, 
a fatkid with good intentions, a soulless demon with [verb] [word], 
honest, hopeless romantic,
sensitive to the small things, desentisized by the internet

i'm soulless because i'm honest,
and i'm honest because i'm soulless

shoot me now, and i won't mind

Threadless artists
Lim Heng Swee - hello mr. blue sky, let go
Budi Satria Kwan - bye bye apocalypse, the leftover, solitary dream pt. 2

I'm stitching up each one of your pockets so when we are together you'll maybe look a little less bored
I'm sticking your fingers into sockets to kick-start your little heart and maybe sleep a tiny bit more

Be very careful if you make a woman cry, because God counts her tears. The woman came out of a man's rib. Not from his feet to be walked on. Not from his head to be superior. But from his side to be equal. Under his arm to be protected, and next to his heart to be loved.

movie affects

BEAST COAST

(2:48:16 AM) Seung: i dont know, kelsey once told me perhaps the reason people try and commit suicide is because they care too much about other people and feel they have to solve all these problems at once

she's fit, but my dick won't

MS Word
alt + space	reset formatting
shift+f3	toggle between all caps, all lowercase, capital first letter

I'm an active learner; knowledge is my motivation. If the work is interesting, my work ethic is unstoppable. I'm a good critic, a 

Adagio in G minor

recites that "computer scientists solve problems. go ask an IT major to fix your PC" - my department advisor

facebook profile status
looking for less than three
fending off zombies from my lawn
i've got a gunblade, a red panda, and a box flinstones push pops. my aim is unsteady, red xiii is small, but we'll job hunt 'til the day...we run out of those god gifted delicious push pops

In music, harmony is the use of simultaneous pitches, or chords.[1] The study of harmony involves chords and their construction and chord progressions and the principles of connection that govern them.[2] Harmony is often said to refer to the "vertical" aspect of music, as distinguished from melodic line, or the "horizontal" aspect.[3] Counterpoint, which refers to the interweaving of melodic lines, and polyphony, which refers to the relationship of separate independent voices, are thus sometimes distinguished from harmony.

(3:06:18 AM) Seung: too much QQ
(3:06:20 AM) Seung: not enough pew pew

Now he's an old Mafia don, from back when
He managed to survive the game, ducking fame
It's how he maintained, the State of Grace, kept his lab laced
Ladies of a fine taste, kept his place guarded
While the young charted, found acquitted, all charges
And his heart loss and, marksmen take the contract
From the contact, waiting for the right event, it all made sense
He left no prints on the weapon, and he was blasting
Came home from prison stashing, still stacking
His whip still matching his kit, steel flashing
Hands quick, nice with his shit, three holy foods
Drops jewels, from a street corner level, young brother, I'mma rebel
Here to instruct private soldiers to buck arms
Ya'll rap cats had your last win, toast the kings
It's Wu-Tang, it's our thing, kiss the ring

Veronica Lynn Gamboa Gonzales

How has the South dominated hip-hop for the last four, five years without lyrics, without hip-hop culture really in their blood? Those brothers came out representing more of a stereotype of how black people are, and I think the media would rather see us as ignorant, crazy motherfuckers than seeing us as intelligent young men trying to rise and take care of ourselves. -RZA

On June 19, 1996, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Fischer announced and advocated a variant of chess called Fischer Random Chess, also known as Chess960, that is intended to allow players to contest games based on their understanding of chess rather than their ability to memorize opening variations.

Fischer Random was designed to remove the importance of opening book memorization. Fischer complained in a 2006 phoned-in call with a television interviewer that talented celebrity players from long ago, if brought back from the dead to play today, would no longer be competitive, because of the progress in memorization of opening books. "Some kid of fourteen today, or even younger, could get an opening advantage against Capablanca," he said, merely because of opening-book memorization, which Fischer disdained. "Now chess is completely dead. It is all just memorization and prearrangement. It’s a terrible game now. Very uncreative."[329] Fischer described the unsavory side of chess in its current form at the highest levels.

"is like a shooting star, 
except fat, brown, 
on the ground"

viranch's read books
The Da Vinci Code, Lord of the Rings series, Band of Brothers, Lord of the Flies, All Quiet in the Western Front, Arthur goes to the Dentist, America: A Citizen's guide to Democracy inaction, I Am America (And So Can You!), The Autobiography of Malcolm X, Names, The Way to Rainy Mountain, Truth & Bright Water, Catcher in the Rye

The Princess and the Frog inspires memories of Disney's Golden Age it doesn't quite live up to, as I've said, but it's spritely and high-spirited, and will allow kids to enjoy it without visually assaulting them.

(1:20:55 PM) Me: i'd make a mediocre beat that conforms to the current trend, without hesitation, i'll take the reputation hit. gotta eat

http://forums.steampowered.com/forums/showthread.php?t=534823

hip eccentric intelligent chicks

I am impressed by few men,
but i am certainly impressed with this man.

jackie chan placed a heart peice in every kid that's seen any of his movies or...ADVENTURES! what a good natured guy.

where's malcolm?
he's in that car with fatty
oooh, i didn't know you could get anywhere in a car with fatty
yeah, just strip the non-essentials away
yes true, cause you won't need an airbag, will you?

you've come up pro war
pro war, that's ridiculous
i use a wormory(?), i been see coldplay twice
okay i gotta go
you gotta play that down
i mean obviously, don't make out i smoke weed, but i'm not in fight club either.
im in neutral club.
first rule of neutral club--let's hear what the other rules are...then we'll take an overview

Im really excited about getting back into tournament level gaming. There is so much to it that is enjoyable. Meeting new amazing people, the grudge matches, the tension of playing for cash, the HYPE, and just the satisfaction of out smarting another person on even ground proving that at that moment. You are the best. Yeah, Its time to get back to the basics!

scribblenauts - i gave him a cow, but he was indiffernt. so i got a butcher knife and went at that cow. raw meat fell out. i threw the raw meat at the famished dude, and he ran away as if he saw a ghost

"The idea that I can be presented with a problem, set out to logically solve it with the tools at hand, and wind up with a program that could not be legally used because someone else followed the same logical steps some years ago and filed for a patent on it is horrifying." John Carmack

(10:37:52 PM) Matt: so whats the working life likee
(10:39:42 PM) Me: um...sorta like elementary school...where you're gone for 8 hours every weekday, but don't hate it


The basic model is that refined carbohydrates are absorbed very quickly by the gut and result in large blood sugar (glucose) spikes that require large insulin surges to keep blood sugar in a healthy range. Over time, many people develop metabolic problems and are not able to cope with these repeated glucose surges and keep their blood sugar under control. As average blood sugar and insulin level levels go up, they cause a cascade of increasing metabolic problems, leading to higher weight or obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, inflamation, and increased risk of heart attack, stroke, cancer, and dementia.

if you make fun of others you? must be able to make fun of yourself, and russel peters makes fun of himself the best.

how are black people and christmas lights related? most of them don't work, and the ones that do work, don't work very well

traveling to far off destinations where people are still in love with the feeling of community and buy their vegetables fresh from the market everyday...finding my place in this world

'cause i wear these tight clothes, tight jeans, tight shirts;
yea i stay tight, like these girls that make my dick hurt.

do i got knives with extra clips and coke by the pound?
nope! but i do got enough bars to go another 10 rounds

without peer pressure, fatties won't learn their boundaries


Here I am again. Under the covers, wide-eyed in a slumbering house. Despite great efforts, when people say goodnight and retire to their rooms, my sleepy gaze that had fixated itself throughout the day dissolves into an alert, newly hatched consciousness.

No matter how much sleep I will starve myself of in order to adjust to daylight hours, there is something about the privacy of the night that attracts me, whether I like it or not. I have always been, and will always be, a night person.

What exactly a “night person” could do other than dance sloppily around a pole or patrol alleyways (both involve handcuffs and boy, am I no Houdini), is beyond me. I have tried with no avail to rid myself of this bad habit. It only leaves me angrily pressing snooze at least five times every morning.

Oh mornings, I hate you. Taking me from my cozy cocoon only for a meal I could do without and a mind numbingly cold shower. I am slow as molasses in the morning and really have no idea what I accomplish, but it takes me two hours to do so.

So, anyways, time to pull myself up by my bootstraps and get to the bright side. The past couple of years I have been sleeping at night because when I am around my other half, I sleep like a well-sedated baby. I suppose its a sort of feeling of security, or some other nonsense. However, now that I am back to my old ways, I have accomplished massive amounts of work during the dark hours. I have devoured piles of books, kept in touch with friends and family better than I have ever before (now that we are awake at the same time) and many other brilliant discoveries, patents pending.

I should be exhausted after my trip to Boracay and medical excursion to Manila, but unfortunately, not quite. Boracay was almost worth the 60ish hours traveling, elephantman-esque ankle swelling and tendinitis. I spent time with friends dancing, eating outrageous food, people watching and floating in the jade colored waters. It was more of an upper crust spring break locale, swarming with foreigners from all over the world, but it was nice to not have eyes constantly on me for once. Probably just what I needed.

I found some of my most cherished purchases in the Philippines in Boracay, surprisingly. I bought jewelry made from natural stones, a dream catcher and a tube-like extraordinary piece of material that can be used as a blanket, dress or to carry your baby in. Anything multifunctional & traditional and I’m sold.

I have decided to live on my own and the residential search has taken over my office. Everyone is now on the prowl, and my sweet little babae are now house hunting feines. A brand new commercial building in the town center that I wanted to rent space in for a studio turned me down today. Then I was told that I could probably rent this mini-mansion next to the school but found out the owners decided to live there out of their three homes this year. Despite these losses, I have more hope than ever of finding my new abode. It shows me that at least there are options.

Having a space of my own will allow me to set aside part of myself to preserve. It will be nice to have a retreat and a dog; to feel like my own person rather than just a trophy Americana. Next month I’m being even crazier and getting a bike. I wouldn’t be surprised if I have a carload or two of Filipinas following me around presidential style, but I’m sure they’ll soon tire and leave me to explore the countryside.

The next few weeks of the house search, moving, conferences and bringing a puppy home will be leaps and bounds towards becoming part of the community. I cannot wait to make trips to the market and find hand-me-down furniture. This is the Peace Corps experience I dreamed of and I can’t get enough. I may be stepping on a few toes in asserting my independence, but I know that I will be more successful and have more to offer once I have a place to escape and clear my mind. Or just to stay up all night and swing in a hammock under the stars.

hey had the best drugs in the 60's. Best music in the 70's. Best hair in the 80's. Best? rap in the 90's. 2000, we're still waiting!!!!

Haneke himself has expressed how he is uninterested in such categorization: "in the Olympic Games the medal doesn't go to the country, but to the athlete."


he was once asked to star in a bollywood film, without having auditioned.
he plays games one-handed, so that he has a free hand for doritos.
after much research, they found the perfect shade of brown, and named it after him.
his birthday is a recognized holiday in some countries.

he doesn't always play smash, but when he does he chooses nes.
stay toasty my friend.

explain that you have found a new career that will benefit your working experience and lifestyle and thank them for the opportunity to have provided you an enriching working environment

With my southern drawl awkwardly I spray like the backside of a skunk and the stash house with the pump 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art_films - explains difference between mainstream hollywood and art films

In some forms of impalement, the stake would be inserted so as to avoid immediate death, and would function as a plug to prevent blood loss. After preparation of the victim, perhaps including public torture and rape, the victim was stripped and an incision was made in the perineum between the genitals and rectum. A stout pole with a blunt end was inserted. A blunt end would push vital organs to the side, greatly slowing death.

The pole would often come out of the body at the top of the sternum and be placed against the lower jaw so that the victim would not slide farther down the pole. Often, the victim was hoisted into the air after partial impalement. Gravity and the victim's own struggles would cause him to slide down the pole

MTBI - INTJ

On a personal level, the INTJ who practices tolerances and puts effort into effectively communicating their insights to others has everything in his or her power to lead a rich and rewarding life.

their greatest potential pitfall is the tendency to think about things rather than doing them, and their difficulty reconciling reality with their inner visions

This is a problem area for the INTJ, who should consciously remember to be aware of others' emotional needs

I hate to admit it but I used to go to the sound effect screen, make the woman squeal, and play with my battle-axe until magic potion flew out the end of it.


Remember, Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.

Apparently Obama's birth certificate was Bin Laden's last horcrux.



People with intelligence and ambition move to New York.

People with intelligence move to San Francisco.

People with just ambition move to LA.


"You are an aperture through which the Universe looks at itself." -Alan Watts

"I use Tahoma. For everything. All the time. I will in fact be naming my next child Tahoma." - stack overflow user
