INTJ natural mates with ENFP

frugal
not content
wise
rational
great at researching, critiquing, product whoring
ecclectic
a lust for originality, try new things (movies/food/events/travel), rarely do the same thing twice

personality
	never angry, charitable, evil, shows disinterest to dumb, eccentric
	nerdy--internet media (nofatclips.com, seen most of the internet), programmer, 
	daydreaming.
	introvert
	nonconformance
	i have the ability to do anything. I just need to figure out what i love...or maybe change occupations to keep me interested
	i can fix anything--in the house, electronics, or computers
	extremely evil/dark/sarcastic, yet always positive
	ridiculous, my favorite humor

past life
	full of media - pitchfork--mix of nujabes/m83/etc. (~100GB), netflix--name favorites (200 in few years)
	i aim for the greatest movie. Characteristics of realism--good acting, cinematography/art, script.
	i've played a ton of video games too, but this has slowed down considerably a few years ago. Time hasn't been kind. I have to prioritize my giant things to do list, and games isn't high, and often are too long.
	I tend to go for media that can be done within a day. So no TV series, comic book series, etc. There is only time for the greatest.
	I also tend to go toward originality. This continues in life too. I try new things everyday. I daydream of being a vagrant.

current life
	unsure about future, maybe you can help
	have a stable job, daydreaming about moving

recent thoughts on life
	moving/living out of country--east asia, japan or some high ranking country like sweden... a place where i'm forced to talk to people and have many events to attend
	dislike suburban life
	
freshly cooked food--steamed dumplings, pork adobo, aunt's cooking, sushi, lollipop chicken (indian), etc.
being thrifty. I have everything i need to sustain, no need for gluttony. I'd rather bank it and hopefully disperse it to friends/family/some charitable thing later.
being green. I like biking, eating healthy, not being fat, knowing my body....i'd still destroy a ray's hellburger though.

i try to be moderate about everything

i'm on the computer an unhealthy percentage of my day. I'm hoping you can change this.

i could just post my notes up....check what i sent peachpearplum
check/update facebook

when i created this profile, i planned to just show my personality through a profile.
It also filters potential dates to a few highly compatibile folks 

events - food festivals, short films at the naro, favorite band concerts, jam bands
restaurants - everything in hampton roads, preferably some small restaurant no one has been to

looking for:
ability to learn quickly, observant, share lololols with, eccentric, know's what's important in life, is always happy, 
good taste in media - seeks originality, silly/ridiculousm, artsy, fun/loud/crazy, 
must be nerdy?
looking for friends to help my lacking social life








from 25.txt:
carefree, positive, gentle, shy

this is very unlikely of me
i don't conform to such bs, i love everything *indie*
why the am i writing this list?
ah yes... i know... 'cause you'll never figure me out otherwise (i'm shy)
when i commit to something, i put a lot of work into it (see below)
i'm a happy person...never get mad...have no reason to...great family (most have the happy gene), healthy body, have money
i sound pessemistic, but inside i'm optimistic ^^
i'm not very close to my elder siblings, age was the culprit
i have a problem...i listen to around 200 songs a month, 50 artists i haven't heard previously
i might be addicted to media...i also watch 1-2 movies a week via netflix
as a result of this, i've developed a high critic-like taste in music and movies (amatuer in books)....so average movies/music really bore me
i daydream...a lot...about elaborate, clever near-future actions/conversations that are either amazing or comical to me ('cause I made 'em up!)
other times i daydream of (adjective) asperations, i've played just about every occupation (most ludicrous) in my mind...and i'm always successful at it
i don't wear name brand clothes (sister might buy or prolly got from a night market) or buy anything according to brands
although i am a consumer whore at the same time, i try to find the best budget product
i'm a really hopeless romantic....rly rly hopeless...but i step up when someone catches my eye
i have 0 social skeelz...bad long-term memory...can't remember lyrics, quotes or dialogues...and fail miserably at storytelling...i'm able to express myself more easily on an IM than in real life
i read a lot of wikipedia - everything fascinates me, too bad i can't remember facts...i just try to train my brain to have a good general concept of everything...then digress into fascination
i'm on the computer a lot...i have 26 webpages opened right now...update on the internet funnies occassionally,
i probably average 7-8 hours of sleep, i just stay up late because i procrastinate work deep into the late night...but the rest of the day i usually am doing something important (to me)
i have a lot of good habits and am very cautious...diet, safety, etc.
i never want to grow up --- i have very child-like (things that make me happy word)
i drink/smoke <5 days per year...it has to be with very close friends
i don't like it people when people yell...or show signs of anger/frustration (childhood: father yelled at me psychology?)
i'm very patient...drive 60 on the highway even when i'm late....oh also i'm never on time
i'm very practical...i do everything myself, and never ask others for help...i google the problem and troubleshoot 'til its fixed or google to learn how to do something
i do work slowly. slight OCD, slight ADD, slight OGC...unless it's crunchtime

i wish i had a younger sibling to share everything with.

shitty long-term memory + love for music makes me forget a lot of things as im lost in the music
on the other hand i have incredible short-term memory & learning ability, which attributes to the success of education...1 class = 4 tests = 4 late nights of learning...that's it.

travel

i would never let you down, or give you up...
i'm the best around and no one's ever gonna let me down

my body oder smells like brownies

well...this has turned out to be personal describe yourself sort of thing and less a random 25 didn't it?
i embody the stereotypical hopeless, internet kid, don't i?

ideas

screenplays, videos, movie scripts





from a friend's 25.txt
so ive been tagged in these things like ten times by now..and im finally bored/a.d.d. enough to do it..

but u know the deal..if ur tagged and u havent written one and tagged me in it ur suppose to do it or whatever...

so here are 25 random facts about me...

1. I LOVE FOOD..everyone who is a good friend of mine knows that i have a deep black hole in my stomach that doesnt fill up for like an hour of food and once it is filled it re-opens ten minutes later.

2. i have exchanged the artist in me into a photographer..apparently i cant find myself being both in one for some reason.

3. i love converse shoes..i think a converse sneaker is the best shoe ever invented.

4. i drink straight up liqour shots..and hate pretty all other drinks (esp. beer)..although i must say baileys is delicious but i could drink that everyday therefore it doesnt count.

5. I LOVE CARTOONS..all it takes to take me from depressed to complete happiness is cartoon network

6. im gonna come clean and say it..i have elf ears.

7. i highly dislike the majority of girls..i find them absolutely annoying and difficult to understand. have no idea how guys can deal with us. however, there are a few exceptions and you gals know who you are..

8. i actually enjoy my job..yea, old people can be smelly but they are so much fun to talk to.. you have no idea how many great stories they have.

9. i love studying politics but i hate talking politics.

10. i am honestly afraid of falling in love because i am scared of getting hurt.

11. I LOVE CHOCOLATE..its the perfect gift for me. just give gifts of food/chocolate..you will make my day..hugs work too.

12. i havent broken a single bone in my body.

13. i absolutely love movies..movie binging is my hobby when im on break. the only thing i miss about blockbuster are the free rentals a week before they hit the shelf.

14. i consider my dog to be my one and only bestest friend..sorry people, you are failing me..

15. im slowly becoming a failed optimist.

16. I LOVE MY CAR..da rabbit is my getaway..if i could i would live in it.

17. my car brings me to another fact..i have an obsession with BMW. [that is gonna be my next car]. i melt inside when i see a bmw pass by..its the ultimate car..like i say..its not a car, its sex on wheels.

18. im in a complete denial of my emotions or feelings..i dont express them and i dont show them..if i ever open up to you, you can consider yourself extremely lucky.

19. i love my family..i would do anything for them

20. i take big pride in my nationality [that is LITHUANIAN for those who always forget].. i highly advise you to look your shit up before you start making comments or statements about my country.

21. i will only treat you nice and give you attention if you return the favor..i dont waste my time on those who dont deserve it.

22. my ultimate midnight snack is a bowl of cereal..preferrably cocoa rice krispies.

23. i wish my life would have a soundtrack..music just makes it all so much more beautiful.

24. i find The Office to be one of the best shows and Dwight one of the best characters ever invented.

25. i am highly upset and angered with the fact that Krispy Kreme's stock has gone 50% down and they will be shutting down...SAVE KRISPY KREME!
