"If I can save some money, I'll be sitting next to you reading, not bothering you, while you are doing some computer works." - Song Songyi

The problem is that I don't feel anymore like I'm some young talent who's getting screwed over by the economy, I feel like I'm some untalented hack who can't cut it in a super-competitive world full of smarter, harder-working people. It's easy and comforting to feel victimized, but what can you do when you think the problem is you? - Josh Raab

"The inferno of the living is not something that will be; if there is one, it is what is already here, the inferno where we live every day, that we form by being together. There are two ways to escape suffering it. The first is easy for many: accept the inferno and become such a part of it that you can no longer see it. The second is risky and demands constant vigilance and apprehension: seek and learn to recognize who and what, in the midst of inferno, are not inferno, then make them endure, give them space."  - Italo Calvino

Video games are the comic books of our time [yet] it's a medium that gains no respect from intelligentsia. They say "oh, video games". And most people who complain about video games have never fucking played them.

My husband Antony and I have often talked of making our own film. Over the years, we have been fortunate enough to enjoy working on so many other people's movies, but still, over late night glasses of red wine, the conversation turned to our' films. Finally, we decided it was time to take the plunge.

Making a film is an expensive undertaking and our only real option was to sell our home to help fund it. It all seems a little crazy until you remember life is short. Thanks to the enormous support of our family and friends, our colleagues and a few other investors, we are on the way.

-Sloane U'Ren

son, you STAY befriending manatees!

By now I'm assuming most aspiring artists have had the "Work hard, don't quit" spiel.  Although that's pretty much the most important piece of advice you'll ever hear, I'll try to provide something a bit different: Especially at the beginning of one's career, there's lack of distinction between yourself and your creation.  This is natural, as our work is an extension of ourselves in many ways.  However, a certain amount of distance must be achieved in order to view your art objectively and not take criticism so personally that it becomes crippling. Only then can true improvement happen. This is why one of the most basic struggles that an artist will have to face is finding the balance between their inferiority complex and superiority complex. -Alice Meichi Li

None of the above. I would like to live in a country where the best decision is made in every case - not simply a decision that conforms to a specific ideology.

And this girl brought pizza hut!! This is like the best day ever lol.

The cowboys won, I went shopping and discovered that I can go down a size in jeans, and I took a nap. This is the best day ever!
-mybestdayever twitter created by Zach Gage

Friends:

Enver
I just wanted to see what it's like to be mean to you...The Ivar way of life. In the end, you just make your friends sad and you masturbate constantly.

(1:38:14 AM) Raymond2: no, it was more mercenary than that
(1:38:23 AM) Raymond2: you want happy in the first few minutes of an experience
(1:38:35 AM) Raymond2: you want sad to show the talent really working, depth etc
(1:38:46 AM) Raymond2: and ambiguous was to avoid cliche


Others:

The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources - Einstein

"If actions are stronger than words, then why is the pen mightier than the sword?" - Philosoraptor.

I do wish Democrats would get it through their pointy heads that the reason the Republicans have been as successful as they have is not because they cater to the "moral values" of fanatical religious nutcases, but because they emphasize freedom--and portray liberals as out-of-touch elitists who want to reduce individual liberties in order to achieve woolly-headed ideas about equity of outcomes. They way to fight that is not to cater to moral-values fanatics, who are about as likely to vote Democratic as to volunteer to be inoculated with leprosy, but to emphasize the aspects of freedom that Democrats support, and Republicans generally attack--like, say, freedom of expression.

From Jon's Facebook:
He who trades liberty for security deserves neither and will lose both.

There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root, and it may be that he who bestows the largest amount of time and money on the needy is doing the most by his mode of life to produce that misery which he strives in vain to relieve.
--

When birds look into houses, what impossible worlds they see. - from a tattoo of a person from Humans in New York

Knowledge has no Value unless you put it into Practise. - form Dinesh Kaka's signature

--
It doesn't look like she's releasing his journals a la Courtney Love did with Cobain, just posting stuff on her twitter (unless I'm missing something).
I'm not completely comfortable with that either, but the little bits of writing that have been available on his site for the last year or so are remarkable, particularly this:
I'm in Seattle to do a private party. A potentially scary situation. The money is good, but who knows if there will be a microphone. Most likely there'll be one guy I can't make fun of. He'll also be the person everybody looks at to see if he's laughing. I bet he only laughs occassionally. He has a position to uphold. How can you laugh at everything and still be a leader? The Dali Lama seems to laugh a lot but we are about as west as you can get. The show starts at midnight. A very cool start time if you ask me. But I have to judge a drink making contest first. The private party is for a bunch of bartenders. Judging means I have to arrive early. And mingle, more or less. Not my style. Whenever I arrive to a club early it's because there's a greenroom I can hide out in. Mingling means I'll be known as the comedian before I hit the stage (if there is one). People will be expecting me to be funny already. Funny already. A test I've failed many times.
"Hey, there's the comedian. He doesn't seem funny." No shit. Because I'm trippin' out, man. Here you are surrounded by those you know well. And here I am, fish outta water struggling to breathe. Tell you what, you be funny now. I'll be quiet. A quiet guy is not necessarily unfunny. Think of Charlie Chaplin. The space shuttle soars through space. But most of the time it's parked. Maybe on a launch pad. It is still the space shuttle. You can't dis it because it's resting. I'm on my launch pad. Soon the countdown will begin. I love funny people. I was funny in social situations. Still am. But when I turned that into my job, I eased off it in everyday situations. Tonight I'll go onstage and make people laugh for 45 minutes. And I bet the funniest person you know, if you added up the amount of time in one day that they had people cracking up still wouldn't add up to 45 minutes. "He doesn't seem funny."
Fuck off.
- Mitch Hedberg

In my world, I think space can be formed by light to create poetry. - Christopher Doyle

Beware of artists. They mix with all classes of society and are therefore the most dangerous.

In our trade, being good means how well you articulate your art fundamentals around the vision and execute the work technically through your medium, within an acceptable amount of time, in a collaborative work environment. - Audran Guerard (art director of EA Shanghai)

"Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Just walk beside me and be my friend." - 
-- Albert Camus

"A man should never neglect his family for business." - 
-- Walt Disney

Tsai was born in Malaysia of Chinese ethnic background and spent his first 20 years of his life in Kuching, Sarawak, after which he moved to Taipei, Taiwan. This, he says, had "a huge impact on [his] mind and psyche," perhaps later mirrored in his films. "Even today," says Tsai, "I feel I belong neither to Taiwan nor to Malaysia. In a sense, I can go anywhere I want and fit in, but I never feel that sense of belonging.
-- Tsai Ming-liang


