


get:
laptop computer
good internet connection
cheap drawing tablet
old iOS phone
old standard Android phone

search:
find way to aggregate all major freelancer sites
  - might need to write an app for this...
for now, subscribe to key-word-based e-mail subscriptions
auto-label 
check by an interval
  - interval depends on bid minimum bid length

create a good portfolio for each site

prep:
try various game engines and asset workflows (2D visuals—illustrations, animations, effects—, audio) until you find a few tools that you feel comfortable with. Should be able to make a 2D game (or an app) without a problem.

prep for games:
game engines: Unity, Godot, Heaps
animation: tvPaint-like simple animation apps, Adobe Animate, etc.

prep for apps:
ui frameworks: Flutter, Haxe (UI, NME?, other native ui frameworks?)

Try the big tools (Unity, Flutter) to have something to compare against, then, can try the smaller tools (Godot, Kha), and decide which fits my style best.






application bid that I missed, because I took too much time on writing the proposal:
heyo...

i was just about to delete my freelancer account, but before doing so, just decided try one last browse and stumbled upon this! This seems fun, lol.

It reminds me of my youth, testing maps with map-makers on battle.net. Nostalgia~~ :) Unfortunately, I never played SC2.

Anyway, I'm really just uncertain if this is even possible!... Are there other SC2 third-party tools out there which scrapes data from the game app?

Inside the game, can you highlight and copy text with the mouse cursor? If not, I'm afraid, you'd have to fall back onto OCR software, which is kinda the last resort, and sucks (unreliable; prolly worse for multiple languages)...

I honestly wonder if there are little DIY hack'ish programs that even you could use 'n try making it yourself. I mean, i remember, even in the late 90's, there were some cool automation tools.. remember AutoHotkey? :)

... anyway this seems really fun... but unfortunately, I can only think shit ways:
1. automate your mouse cursor to highlight & copy text... maybe you press a button to trigger this...
2. brute force screen reading via OCR (even beyond it's unreliability, I think it would be too difficult to guess where the text is, with factors like windowing, resolutions, etc. It's just too ugly of a solution.)

ideally, you'd want something to be able to hook into the game / app... but if that were possible, I'd imagine people would abuse this. ;) ;)

sorry, but i think one can only try, and see if it's impossible or not.

