哈哈，真花哨的表現。

哇，真好。他知道怎麼現代影響人。

本人不打定主意。

按摩，歌劇。

哇。他打媽媽說參軍。

他住在安居工程。

哇，真的奇怪。看電視的房間，差不多karaoke
--
第二半：
現代主義：理智人只有看傳統人做什麼。不需要參加傳統的東西。

人真的笨，他們反應好慢。

在傳統的地方可以活只有短的時間。因為沒有理智人。可是如果你是聰明你得會作理智的事。

在社會外面主角看社會。只有可以看創痛的東西。

現代人為貴。

二十年的錢她要用了修復房子。

高速公路開了門，意思是，可以互通情報。


Looking at synopsis on Wikipedia, it becomes much easier to see actions:
Aimless people, because there is no hope in the society. No empowerment, art, or science.

One event sets the characters into action: the explosion of a textile mill.

Gift-giving and largest use of money, even going into debt and taking a loan for.

Zhangzhi - philosophized that we should do what feels good.

Feeling of not future after getting denied by Army. The Army was the only action to make his mother happy?

Learned to rob a bank from American films? Quentin Tarrentino? hah.




"At first it was the bleak and lonely buildings that attracted me. When I saw the streets filled with lonely, directionless people, I became interested in them."

Unknown Pleasures was filmed using digital video in only nineteen days, as a result of time and budgetary constraints.

Jia was able to begin shooting a mere three weeks after developing the idea for the film.


this generation is often detached from reality, filtering their experiences through the internet, television, and other media.

"the attitudes of these kids are almost completely derived by the electronic mass media that they consume and that consumes them."

In Unknown Pleasures, young people lack discipline. They don't have any goals for the future. They refuse all constraints. They run their own lives and act independently. But their spirit is not as free.

For Jia, the story of the Monkey King "reflects the fatalism of [Unknown Pleasures]" in that unlike the Monkey King, these characters "struggle desperately. They pull themselves out of difficult situations, but they always fall back into new problems because no one can escape the rules of the game. True freedom doesn’t exist in this world."

That year, reality was more theatrical than anything we could see at the movies. It even leaned toward surrealism. The entire population got worked up. This strange excitement gave me a worrisome feeling. The anger of society's inner layers was beginning to come out and show itself.

