lego factory

" most engaging, fresh, memorable and viral video content on the Internet."

1) Looking for tone, feel, and sensibility that is different from the existing Hero Factory videos which you can see here. 
  
2) The ultimate purpose of these videos is to drive awareness across the web to LEGO Hero Factory and to draw in new users.

--Target Audience:  Videos should appeal to kids 6-10 but also should also appeal to LEGO loving web-audiences and adults.  We fully expect that this will be as exciting and fun for you as the product is for the kids who use it. So remember: first and foremost we're looking for FUN, new, and must-see / must-forward / "like" isn't enough executions.
 
--Exposure: The winning videos will be used this spring by LEGO in multiple capacities including a major search campaign.


PHASE 1: CONCEPT - Tell us your Concept for a 30-90 animated or animation/live action video designed to create viral buzz and excitement around LEGO Hero Factory in 250 characters or less. The best Concepts will not only serve as input for an amazing video, but also thematically convey the fun and dynamism of the Hero Factory world. Remember, a Concept is not a detailed script; it is a moment of inspiration, or a distillation of what will happen in the Video. As always, Concepts should be clever, engaging, and f-u-n. Winning Concepts creators will each receive $100, a $50 LEGO Gift Card, the much anticipated LEGO Moleskine, and a 5% residual payment for every winning video their Concept is used to generate.


Many years ago, Hero Factory founder, Akiyama Makuro, realized that with so much evil at large in the universe, an inexhaustible force for good was needed to combat it. To answer the call for this great mission, he created HERO FACTORY. Today, his dream continues to thrive, dedicated to the preservation of peace and the dynamic enforcement of galactic law.
 
The Factory designs, builds, and dispatches robot-heroes to fight villains, solve crises, and restore peace across the universe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. The Factory operates in the amazing Makuhero City, a modern, sprawling technopolis with a multitude of diverse and lively neighborhoods:  home to millions of living robots.
 
BUT, all is not well---there's been a BREAKOUT!  The Hero Factory, the beacon of hope, the fortress for justice  in the centre of Makuhero City, seemed impenetrable and incorruptible - until now…
 
The vast collection of ignoble villains and hideous monsters, once held secure inside Hero Factory's Lockdown Facility, has somehow broken their bonds -- and they're fleeing from Makuhero City to all corners of the galaxy!!  
 
Nooooooo!!!
 
But as the robot-heroes begin battle to capture the villains, it becomes apparent that the breakout is merely a feint - a nigh-disastrous distraction from the malefactions of the evil Black Phantom, who has remained behind, intent on destroying the Factory's Assembly Tower.  
 
With the mission-managers immobilized by Black Phantom, Hero Factory locked down, and all contact with the heroes cut off, Rocka - the only hero remaining - must use all of his training and expertise to foil Black Phantom's diabolical plans!
 
Can Rocka hold out until the team returns???
 
…Are you hooked yet? 
 
Of course you are!


1.
Good kid vs evil kid

A good kid is playing with his hero factory set (voicing the good characters, think Toy Story) outside on his lawn, in which everything is good (villians are jailed). A bad kid crosses onto the good kid's lawn, breaks the jail open, voicing the evil characters. The kids argue. Animation sequence begins, characters ready for battle, cliffhanger at the start of battle.

2.
Begin with a focus on the innocence and beauty of Makuhero City, sweeping shots of it's diverse, eclectic neighborhoods and the people within, obviously peaceful for many years. Subtlely show the good heroes walking along in the background. An air of something awry is realized. The citizens don't know how to react. News channels indicate the Lockdown Facility has been broken into. The villains fly toward the Tower. Black Phantom is shown.

Focus on the beauty of Makuhero City, it's diverse, eclectic neighborhoods and the people within, obviously peaceful for many years. Subtlety show the good heroes walking along in the background. News channel indicate Lockdown Facility was breached.

3.
Chaos during recess

Kids are playing with the Hero Factory set during recess. Each kid has a unique personality, matching a hero or villain. One of the villainous kids questions why their characters are jailed. Another kid uses his hero to breakout, the others follow along. All of the kids and their character react accordingly. Chaos ensues.

Kids are playing with Hero Factory toys during recess. Each kid has a unique personality, matching a hero or villain. One of the villainous kids questions why their toys are jailed. Another kid uses his hero to breakout. All kids react, chaos ensues.

4.
Unique personalities conflict

First two thirds. Begin with a focus on the Black Phantom's characters. Crazy, somewhat reminicent to The Joker from Batman comics. Using a combination of insanity, slyness, and a french accent, he arranges a breakout. Last third. Rocka is introduced, an equally unique personality. Suddenly becoming the only hope.

First two-thirds: focus on the Black Phantom's character. Somewhat reminiscent to The Joker. Using a combination of insanity, slyness, and a french accent, he masterminds a breakout. Last third: Rocka is introduced, equally unique personality.

5.
Use the miniature effect with the the real Hero Factory toys. Use voiceovers of either kids or adults. Make it appear epic. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miniature_effect.

