temp 3:
Hey Joel.

I have an odd request.

Some background first:
I've just finished work exchange and travel in Taiwan, and I am now in Kuala Lumpur, researching my next move. I'm seriously thinking about living and working in an East Asian city that has projects related to digital art and film so I'm doing a little research, but figured it may be easier to get in contact with some people who live/work in East Asian cities.

I chose to message you specifically based on interests found on your CS profile and blog. Searching "filmmaker" or "game developer" really narrows people who make stuff!

Anyway, could you answer some questions or offer some related advice?

The questions:
1. Is Korean, the language, required to work?

2. Is there a Korean local job database website people use, like craigslist?

3. Could you provide me some info about the film and possibly digital/interactive/game art scene in Seoul (or other East Asian cities you've been in) based on your personal experience/opinion (organizations, media companies, local job database website, events, links, etc.)?

See http://babycastles.com/summit.html as a reference for things I'm specifically interested in for digital.

As for film, I'd be interesting in any. I haven't gotten to film yet, I plan to make films independently for contests.

If you find this message to be absurd and do not want to reply, that's cool too. No worries!

Thank you so much for your time.



cover letter for film:
Heya,

I'm interested in working with ya. I saw your post on JobsDB, then I saw some videos, and now I'm writing this email!

My intention is to simply work for a film production company, preferably a small studio in which everyone takes on several roles.

You can can get a better understanding of who I am by checking my website. It contains a resume, portfolio, and the typical nonsense. The only things missing from my website is the most recent game I'm working on and my travels / work exchange.

If you've viewed my site and am somehow still intrigued, I'd like to inform you of my current situation. I've just finished work exchange [as a teacher] and travel in Taiwan, and I am now in Kuala Lumpur, researching my next move. My hope is to move into an East Asian city that has projects related to digital art and film. I've always wanted to work in film-making  but postponed it due to my interests in game development. Hong Kong seems ideal, as I only know English, which brings about a few possible problems: I cannot speak Mandarin or Cantonese, and I am a U.S. citizen.

If you do not think I am fit, I would be extremely grateful if you provided reasons. Whether it's my lack of film experience, my inability to speak Mandarin and Cantonese, because I am a U.S. citizen, or otherwise.

Thank you so much for your time.
-- 
rahil.patel
757.630.7972



email to Jon Stokes:

An update on me:
I spent a few days in Taipei, mind blown, trying to figure out what I want to do, then 5 weeks doing work exchange at a wonderful independently-owned English school / day care center, then 2 weeks circumnavigating the country. Then, my visa ran out, so I bought a cheap flight to Singapore. I found it to be expensive and offered nothing more than Malaysia could, so I went to Kuala Lampur (Malaysia) the next day. I'm still in KL, chillin', thinking of my next move, cleaning up. Taking some videos, 'cause I NEED to do something!

I wasn't able to get any kind of personal work done during the whole trip, and the trip didn't feel right most of the time because of it. Pushing myself to be directionless, and trying to relax, when my personality doesn't need to relax. So, I always tried to have a small goal, like learn Mandarin, create games to teach English, etc. Although I did things I'd never would normally do, becoming more social, more confident (I often don't know where I'll go, do, or sleep), ultimately, I can't travel without a goal. It feels like consuming without having time to think about it, apply it. It's too fast. Next time I travel, it would have to be backpacking slowly and filming or making games, or creating something!

I still haven't decided my next move. I hate making decisions. I think I've narrowed it down to the following possibilities:
1. Go to India and make stuff peacefully. Don't think about money, jobs, and other nonsense. Finish Pinkies Up, and a million other game ideas. Begin making short films. And at any time, I could backpack around. If things go right, I could go the full-time artist route? Art residencies and higher education?
2. Find a job within a multi-media company, anywhere: Hong Kong, Tokyo, NY, Taipei, whatever. As long as I feel the people make cool products, I'd join them. Then it's city life all over again.

In the meantime, I eat delicious food, over-think, and may begin travelling in one direction.

Hah, sorry for the mind dump. Writing updates like these helps me figure out what I want to do.

I probably didn't answer any of your questions. What was it that you wanted?


Facebook update for the Taiwanese sisters:

Oh, don't search for anything! I just wanted to gather whatever information you already had.

I substituted Philippines for Singapore. I spent one day in Singapore, then took a bus to Kuala Lumpur because I felt Singapore had nothing more to offer than Malaysia at 1/4th the price. It's cool. The perfect place to relax, use the computer, and of course, eat delicious food. The diversity is a nice change too; I missed that.

The people are nowhere near as well-rounded as Taiwanese though. They appear to be tired, unsocial, perhaps from their terrible diet of strong black tea and large rice portions. The demographics are weird too. It's mostly old people and males. It seems similar to how travelers often describe mainland China, and possibly India. I did however find amazing people, mostly university students, at an open mic at a nearby venue, so not all hope is lost.

I haven't done much sightseeing or travelling. I'll begin slowly travelling in one direction again this weekend. Travelling, filming, and job hunting. Can't stop!



Status update:

I went to Taiwan

Anyway, after extending my work exchange at the school from two weeks to five weeks, I travelled counter-clockwise around Taiwan, mostly staying at hostels, but I was able to CouchSurf twice.

I did stay at the Sleeping Boot, and I loved it! There was a nice Hong Kongnese girl that helped me out tremendously, and the space and people were cool.

My favorite part of travelling was definitely renting a scooter along the east coast, seeing rustic undeveloped towns along the valley and the beach. That and Toroko Gorge of course. I now think backpacking via motorcycle is the optimal way to travel.

Anyway, I ended up changing my flight path, substituting Philippines for Malaysia, as you and another person mentioned how cheap it was to live there. It seemed perfect for what I wanted: a cheap place to stay while I relax, catch up on computer work, and research my next move.

I stayed in Singapore or one day and didn't feel like it offered much more than any other city in Malaysia and costs three times more, so I took a bus to Kuala Lumpur the next day. This place is indeed perfect. Cheap accommodation, cheap and DELICIOUS food, merchants don't rip me off, and I don't feel too unsafe (compared to what I expect of Philippines). I just have to ignore the prevalent creepy older male working class.

message to CSer

The following questions are not limited to Taiwan.

Is the native language required in order to work or volunteer (professional or small/independent) in Asia within the field of art/design/media? [Japanese for Japan, Korean for Korea, Mandarin for Taiwan] Is English enough for Hong Kong?

Do you know how developed the digital or interactive art scene is? Are there things similar this: http://kotaku.com/5940021/see-the-room-that-ate-ms-pac+man-and-three-other-one+of+a+kind-video-game-experiences-right-here ? Know of any organizations or companies that do this kind of stuff?

Do you know of any organizations or film studios that one could contact for intern/volunteer/work? 



message to Floor on Facebook:

Flöör!

So sorry for the super late reply, especially since you put some time into the message.

Anyway, after extending my work exchange at the school from two weeks to five weeks, I travelled counter-clockwise around Taiwan, mostly staying at hostels, but I was able to CouchSurf twice.

I did stay at the Sleeping Boot, and I loved it! There was a nice Hong Kongnese girl that helped me out tremendously, and the space and people were cool.

My favorite part of travelling was definitely renting a scooter along the east coast, seeing rustic undeveloped towns along the valley and the beach. That and Toroko Gorge of course. I now think backpacking via motorcycle is the optimal way to travel.

Anyway, I ended up changing my flight path, substituting Philippines for Malaysia, as you and another person mentioned how cheap it was to live there. It seemed perfect for what I wanted: a cheap place to stay while I relax, catch up on computer work, and research my next move.

I stayed in Singapore or one day and didn't feel like it offered much more than any other city in Malaysia and costs three times more, so I took a bus to Kuala Lumpur the next day. This place is indeed perfect. Cheap accommodation, cheap and DELICIOUS food, merchants don't rip me off, and I don't feel too unsafe (compared to what I expect of Philippines). I just have to ignore the prevalent creepy older male working class.

I've got your info about the Philippines copied, in case I do go there. Sorry again for asking for info and not going. 

I don't think I can travel any longer, I need work again, and not just any work, something within my interests (film, game, art, media, etc.). So, it seems I will have to do some research, find people I can work with, or just skip everything and go straight to India so that I can begin working on stuff. I'll figure it out soon. I don't feel rushed in Malaysia. 

LOL at your ozzie experience. That sounds like an amazing experience: battling cattle. It's like something off of the show "Dirty Jobs". You're doing some really gritty work. Try to take a little care of your body!

I hope you're doing well too, wherever you may be, and whatever you may be doing.