trip from DMK to Chiang Mai

update:
took the 3rd class slow trains. 3rd class was perfect, with big windows, care-free change of seats, able to change / extend destination ticket on-board.

most of the way is plains, farms. The train doesn’t go through the center of cities; It just goes through farms. Dusty, unpaved roads. Burnt farms. Nothing. Probably like going through the middle of America.

Without a motorcycle, there’s no reason to stop by anywhere. No place is walkable.

At a few train stations, there are markets nearby.

The train stations are immaculate, perfect places to rest, complete with toilets, and often even showers for 50 cents!

Beyond sleeping at the train stations, I saw no reason to wander out in the plains, especially without a motorcycle. One would have to find a person before-hand.

—

thoughts on a trip from Bangkok to Chiang Mai
https://www.travelfish.org/trip_planner/stops-between-bangkok-and-chiang-mai
  - great, blunt “slow” travel info

I think its best to simply stop by tiny towns and sleep at the train station. The more rural, the better. But, perhaps, best not to have money on me...

I *feel* that is the best because with such a heavy back-pack (plus two more bags!!), it would be difficult to travel without a motorcycle: it would involve finding a hostel, getting there: meaning, finding bus stations and catching buses, staying the night, forced to trip during the day, then forced to stay another night, because I *want* to travel (move) during the day. So, I would have to spend two nights in every place that I stop, or, one night, and I just keep moving and bussing.

Compare that to motorcycling. **With a motorcycle, I am *free*.**

**The next best thing to a motorcycle is the train. With a train, at least, you can stop whenever and wherever you want**, and just catch the next train, going at your own pace, letting the train move you, and allowing more time in the mind.

So, just check the maps to see what little train station towns are on the way, and make your own little town trip.

towns on the way
(Bangkok)
Ayuthaya
  - right next to the train station!
small towns: Tha Rua, Ban Mo
(Lop Buri) - 750k!, can skip
a ton of small towns
(Phitsanoluk) - avoid, sounds like a dull transit hub
a few small towns
(Uttaradit) - avoid, sounds like a dull city, 500k
a few small towns
(Lampung) - mid-size, 750k!, biggest city worth trying for slow pace, has a walkable area
(Lamphun) - mid-size, 400k, second biggest city worth trying for an even slower pace, no walkable area?