Daniel N. Robinson Ph.D.

personal notes:
Limit notes to things I find interesting, able to explore, like Wittgenstein.
  - but the listening experience is intense, I almost need to write down what he says because the lectures are so dense at times, just to understand it.

44. Marxism - Dead, but not forgotten
What we usually think of is an American boy from the 1950s.

Much political philosophy of second half of the 1900s owes much Marx.

What we think is Lennin, and other dictators, but does not get close to the system or thought of Marx.

He thought philosophy, speculation of knowledge, is merely habitual organization.

Mostly economic and social theory, not usually things that fall under philosophy, or not epistemology and that stuff.

1818 to 1883
Prussia?
Protestantism, law school, meet Jenny, Uni of Berlin to join the young Hegelians, radicalism made academic career impossible*, but found journalism more nurturing. At 26, appointed (chief?) editor of a Prussian newspaper, and nearly gets it closed down. The again an editor in France, and after two years, expelled again. Then to London.

Little of Marx can be tested, so his scientific contributions are negligible compared to his influence. His predictions were dis confirmed.

He paid little attention to systematic problems in philosophy.** Spending time on the mind body problem amazes him.
 - absolutely, I agree, that philosophy is a waste of time, it's about helping people not nitpicking philosophy
 
Gasendies: Physiological theory of mind, materialism, is what he chose for his solution to mind body problem.
 
Thesis: The difference between the Democratian and Epicurus view of nature.
 
 Not much care for religion, even war against it. Foyerbach, his teacher, similarly did not care for it. "The true conquerer of the old philosophies" said Marx of him. It attacked the ideal of the Hegelism. Materialist.
  - that is, more material than cultural or social

Marx is a different kind of materialist, a dialectical materialist he claims, more in the tradition of Hegel. Both, Marx and Engrls, disciples of Hegel. It's not materialist in the sense of Epicurus, Newton in the past, the mechanistic atomism and so on, dialectical materialism retains the materialistic ontology of philosophical materialism but then accounts of all change***, in terms of what? The struggle of opposites. And then it becomes this which makes change possible, through conflict***. Is it under historical materialism that human character is shaped by the human modes of production.***

For Hagel, the absolute idea realizing itself through human history. A transcendent, not material mode of progress. Not earthly level, but rational. Reason realizing itself. Some cosmic rational precept that does its silent work in the world. Hisortoric processes become emblems of what's taking place behind the scenes. Marx dismissed this idealism.

Marx ignores idealism and attaches oneself to dialectical materialism in which social and political, which are economic. Economic forces aren't the sole forces, but they are he dominant ones.*

People at first are influenced by the needs of the body, not by first of philosophical abstractions, but by creature needs.

Darwinian model inspired him a bit, to write Das Kapotal for him.

Aristotle said that the legal and political framework of society will shape the moral character of citizens. It was these things, not economics. Aquinas too said social organizations are for ends that dictate conscious. The economics are surface phenomenon. Marx turns this view of social institutions and begins with the productive resources that a tribal enclave or entire empire may claim for itself

This eludes the power of a laboring class, which becomes an instrument in which power becomes possible.

In time possession of property is taken, this establishing class distinction. It becomes necessary for the property class to secure their property, write laws, exact punishments [hagemony]***. Law is a class concept, a tool, arising from material interdependencies by the bergiose and proletariat classes***.

With the rise of capitalism and the decline of feudalism, the process works in an almost mechanical way. Suppose we want to accumulate capitalism, which is was capitalism is all about, accumulate wealth. To accumulate wealth you must sell something at a price less than the cost of producing it, the cost of labor. The difference in cost is the profit.

Then in order for people to simply not over-produce, there must be a need for control of production [doesnt make sense to me], the primary mode of production -- labor. Like machines, labor must be well maintained. Wage is the means of which labor is preserved, and even further it it used as a means to reproduce the labor class, so that their offspring also enter the same enterprise.

If you are above the labor class, and want your interests protected, chiefly by love. So one must be able to command capital, and secure it with law.*** they are mutually self-serving, the legislative and executive departments, are tools of exploitation of the laboring class.*

Reaction if unionization in the 19th century. The distribution of resources in proportion to their work was routinely violated, as witnessed by Marx's travel , everywhere in Europe.

Feudalism was more homogenous, compared to capitalism. He sees something positive in fuedalism, though knowing it must be replaced. The feudal lord is not amassing capital, not amassing power, he seeks to attain some certain status compatible of some religious world view. At a social level he wants to preserve what is achieved. In doing so he recognizes the need and nobility of labor. He lives in a society not where class structure is a measure of worth, but rather what the divinely intended order of the cosmos would bring about.

Thought Marx sees nothing in the religious aspects, he does often compare to fuedalism and puts it in positive light, it's mode of social organization, and economics.

For Marx, the movement from feudalism to capitalism is quite complex. The two existing side by side for quite some time. The undoing of fuedalism rises with its own success: as one has the needs of survival and security, there is a growing desire for new goods, trade, but for the labor class this is hidden. The dialectic.

Manufacturers replace craftsmen, unskilled laborers replace them, capital assemblies accelerate capital production, thanks to cheap labor and the lender ship of modes of production [still exists, outsourcing, China, factories, etc.].***

What happens when this goes unchecked? The rich get richer, the poor get poorer, and at last, revolution is the only remedy.

What is capital? According to the labor theory in capitalism, labor produces more than what is paid for, and the surplus yields capital. Of course this only works insofar there are consumers. According to the theory, for capitalism to survive, it must continue to expand. The consumer class must be increased.

Unlike fuedal mode of production, the progressive capitalistic mode of acquisition of wealth, has to grow, which means it must create advertisements for products, since the basic necessities of life can be satisfied. Then one must start producing things regardless of survival -- clothes, cars, etc. Must create consumerism*, must create a consumer ethos, to make people be concerned with one's status and class**. So then class structure becomes an integral part of a capitalist economy*, because it has to do with self-identity**. I am what I am able to buy*.

The model for this psychology, Marx draws on the history of religions, "the opiate of the masses". 

The professor told students in the past, that Marx's teachings have functioned as the opiate for Mao, Lenin, etc. People put up with a life of struggle, not because there were tanks on the streets but because they believed in a theory, a form of life, was a sort of stage in a kind of evolutionary process. The professors says this is a kind of numbing thing that even relegion rarely achieved.

The great obstacle if a revolutionary enterprise is complacency, and one way to be complacent is to think that current life is ordered, right, the way it is. Religion redirects the mind from now to some other place. So the opiate is that one focused less on current life and begin to put interests in a set of values that are promulgated by classes above one own, usually some future reward, rights, rituals, etc.

One must recognize one is a victim of it [the basis of much critical theories, be aware]: class consciousness, is the engine to revolution. First realize one is being manipulated, by people paying you wages in the interests of preserving their system [hagemony], they depend on your failure, your failure to change anything materially in your life, and social arrangements. So what is needed is a revolution, and that revolution is not bloodless, because those in power do not relinquish power, power is taken from it. Revolution upheavals are the only basis of which economic and social stasis is impelled to change, and compelled to change.

Science and technology have radically altered the means of production. Marx left no room for the changes brough bout technology.

The professor says, as far as the static status of the class, consider only the democracies in the west for the past century to see how mobile people are within that framework [??? Not sure what he professor means here. Maybe sees progress in them? Compared to what? Fuedalism?].

Marx's theory is deterministic, and it is defeated by the current reality.

[Perhaps I skipped this one when I first listened to this series, more interested in more basic things: politics, language, epistemology, etc, only listening Wittgenstein, the good life, etc. from the later lectures.

Listening to this now, it's a very simple glance of Marx.

The professor, as a philosopher, is more interested in philosophical problems than social, which is the opposite of Marx.

The professor acknowledges some problems of capitalism. The professors mentions in Marx theory, the higher class creates laws to secure goods. I think this is very very important, relevant, and leads to hagemony, which is implied but the term never used.

Being aware of one's class is also mentioned, but only for economic reasons, the professor does not enter into other social problems of critical theory.

What's surprising is that the professor, at the end of the lecture, sees much positive in Western democracies for the past century. He doesn't mention must anti-capitalist sentiment. He's neutral, hallow, cold blooded, without care for current society. Only in consumerism did the professor show some vitriol.]

47. William James - Pragmatism
Pluralism - 
Functionalism psychology
  - inspired American Behaviorism
  - What is the function of the mind? As we know the function of other organs

Does consciousness exist?
  - yes and no, no for medieval matter, yes to stream of thought, ideas, actions

What does consciousness add to life?
  - to decipher from a zombie or robot

Recognizes the mind is a complex organ.

will, attention, selection*
  - we choose to pick things and react to it
  - freedom (free will) vs determinism

idiomotor options
reflex reservoir and stimulus
intentionality, volition 

nature may indulge in complexity
  - [against habit?]

James
  - What is Pragmatism? (8 lectures series):
    - a method of settling metaphysical disputes, to try to interpret each notion practically. If it cannot be disputed, then it is idle

Pierce
  - How to make our ideas clear (essay):
    - consider what effects which might concievably have practical barriers we conceive object our conception to have. Then, the whole of conception of those effects, is the whole of our conception of the object.

The will expresses itself on the account of what we take it to be our highest interests. What we do is behalf on our highest interests. There is a stream of thought, we choose possibilities of action. It must match the highest interest.*** For those creatures not endowed, then survival the interest, and the world becomes a wild place.

Why take Newton's law of gravity as true? Because we need it for the practical affairs of life. The evidence of experience is what we have.

So the opposite, why take Einstein's view, which is completely theoretical and unable to be experienced as true?

(Skipped some, re-quotes James's maxim, not merely what matches what is practically experienced, but what is in our higher interests)

The interests can be religious, art, political, etc.* Highest interests change, influenced by higher intelligences.*** Just as thoughts change, interests change. There is always more. There is a plurality of possibilities.

Changes in short occur, and ring throughout phenomenon, but have no place in scientific logic...And unearthly ballet of bloodless categories.

He universe must be pluralistic because we look at it at different perspectives, which are shifted by different interests.*** Sometimes with eye, with telescope, with microscope, with spiritual character, with mind frameworks.*

James's radical empiricism will give rise to his pluralistic universe.

Pluralism - Nothing real is absolutely simple, That each relation is one aspect, function, one way of being taken or taken by something else.

The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life:
...eh
Is it just in he nature of being human, that the highest interests are going to be far more similar than different, and if so, that it would not be for one culture to authorize another culture, but to step outside and ask what kind of culture is right for being whose central interests are these.***

[well worded ending of distinguishing James's plurality, fallabilism from relativism]
--

?. Wittgenstein:
Epistemology is linked to how we describe the world.

4.01 A proposition is a picture of reality.

4.033 Most of the propositions and questions of philosophers is a failure of understand of the logic of our language.

7. The limits of my language mean the limits of my world.

Bio:
Did not need a career or job.

Interested in aerodynamics and architecture. Restless mind, many interests. Became interested in math, then logic.

Minds are private.

Language game. Example: beetle in a box. Beetle could have any meaning.



The professor says he went to elementary school because he felt he solved all philosophy problems. I don't think this is true. He just needed space, and wanted to stay active. The school gave him a different set of actions to take that may bear new fruit.

The individual words in language name objects—sentences are combinations of such names. In this picture of language we find the roots of the following idea: Every word has a meaning. This meaning is correlated with the word. It is the object for which the word stands.


Rather than presenting a philosophical problem and its solution, Wittgenstein engages in a dialogue, where he provides a thought experiment (a hypothetical example or situation), describes how one might be inclined to think about it, and then shows why that inclination suffers from conceptual confusion. The following is an excerpt from the first entry in the book that exemplifies this method:

1. Upanishads to Homer:

intro:

history of ideas, not cumulative, learn from mistakes, then can create better thoughts

epistemology - the theory of knowledge, esp. with regard to its methods, validity, and scope. Epistemology is the investigation of what distinguishes justified belief from opinion.

three problem areas cover most philosophy:
knowledge
conduct
governance


49. Alan Turing in the Forest of the Wisdom:

He lives in an abstract world, not thinking about the physical.

How to break a code? Think how others think? How do problems get solved? What steps must be taken? How to create an unbreakable code?

Enscheidel’s Problem: Decide if a problem is decidable.

Turing: A problem is computable. Has an algorithm.

using symbols to represent anything
  - for example, represent integers, 0 is nothing, 01 = 1, 10 = 2, 11 = 3, etc.
handle input, give output

aren’t humans simply handling input and output?

model human intelligence?
is there anything about humans significantly different from a properly programmed computational device?

Turing Test:


rational intelligent being == human?

end note:
It isn’t clear what’s going on what’s going through: what are the symbols? Wittgenstein’ish question.*

Chinese Room:
put Chinese cards in order based on some instruction, without knowing the meaning of Chinese. Without comprehension, it is done. There is no meaning, no intelligence. The meaning is only known with a social construct, who play this language game.

He lives in an abstract world, not thinking about the physical. Manipulation of symbols, preposition relationships, Forest of Wisdom — see by the light within


Socrates on the Examined Life:
—




the notes below are from iPhone:


notes：
Metaphysics - nature of being and the world that encompasses it. What is ultimately there? What is it like? Non-empirical philosophical enquiry.

Science - empirical through scientific method, deriving from empirical experiments



Human Value and Philosophy:
Neitzhe - knowledge is power


Wittgenstein:
Questions language, which is used to create propositions by philosophers.

Most of the propositions and problems by philosophers, rise from the failure to understand the logic of the language and in fact the deepest problems are not problems at all.

What is a proposition? A picture of reality.

The limits of my language is the limits of my world.

Language game: What is inside the box?

Picture theory of knowledge

The way people publicize knowledge, through language.

50. a theory of good life

Fatalistic - fate

Hedonism - unrequited desire, between pain and pleasure, peace, protect sanctuary then seek pleasure

Saint - mother Teresa, thinks it's normal


Desire depends on a lot
Responsibility is needed, to feel achievement
Experience (brain in a vat)
If pleasure can be stimulated regularly
Desire experience? What is it? Active life? Happiness?
Living the good life unconsciencely, not that a saint knows, conscience of others, service, not self-conscience.
Contemplate, do it, active life
A bit of all of the theories: fatalistic, hedonistic, saint (selfless)


53. Philosophy of Psychology:
Huh?
Seen as engineering, modeling something? Mixed, fluff?

54.
Philosophy of Mind
?

25. Francis Bacon - Authority of Experience
Think before working, going into a lab. 95% of experiments in higher education are useless.

Aristotle is ancient, but just a water level, not the end.

Forget about metaphysics, just explore. Find new connections between objects.

Whatever deserves to exist, deserves to be studied.

Defender in experimental inquiry.

Words are merely representative of the external world. If you're interested in that world, go into that world. Don't sit around talk about it like a picture.

26. Descartes and the Authority
Descartes method:
Start with ignorance, take nothing for granted that isn't clear
Break into steps
Small steps to general steps
Test general solution, falsification

How to understand matter, if not from senses from what? Psychic. Matter is imminent in thought.

Models of a possible world shaped and conditioned by the properties by cognizing, of a cognitive being.*

27. Newton
Was ADHD

Was interested in astrology, which led to math problems and solutions

Method: Abstract, reduce, physical things, to idealized model

Galileo

If mechanics can describe the cosmos, it should describe tiny societies.

28. Hobbes and the Social Machine
Uses scientific methods to study society, mechanical even.

People are parts, thing in motion, motion influenced by pain and pleasure, which then is influenced by survival.

Explains monarchy, the commonwealth, the protection of the individual under a society.

Reward and punishment as ways to influence people.

Uses the same tools studied nature to study human nature.

Humans cant do anything on its own, moves mechanically, and deserves study as any thing in nature does.

29. Lock's Newtonian Science (did not listen well)

30. No Matter, Never mind (did not listen well)
No mind never matter

Locke:
Experience is just stimulation, a collection of sensations.

Livenence:
Experience (sense) and mind are connected.

Elementary sensations create the basis of life, then associations are created.

Ideas and perception are of the mind. Blue and sweetness are not matter.

5. Greek Tragedians
Dance, pre-literate language.

Dialog follows drama, usually bringing about philosophy during analysis.

It is up philosophers to take the baton and further the notions from drama.

Does philosophy further the dramas? Perhaps.***** -- art vs literature as a means to learn. It also respects drama as a source of infinite philosophy.

6. Herodotus and the Lamp if History
Philosophy through history. Problem of knowledge. What causes war?

Freud would say animalistic instinct.

Herodotus knows better. It's about values. Cultural differences. People are moved by words and symbols.

Sociology of why people go to war. Not simply fate as mentioned in dramas. The Persian War was caused by us (humans).

How you are remembered.

Achievement causes war. What is worth dying for, what is the aspiration.

Characters.

What it takes to train a military better is governance, characters to form?

But aspiration need not end in war, as mentioned by the good virtue of Cleevus and Biton, as they ended in happiness (as opposed to winning a war).

7. Socrates on the Examined Life (boring, played several times and failed)

Socratic Method: Losing side critically thinks through dialog via inquiry what went wrong.

Question the most confident.

Negative method of hypothesis elimination, to identify and elongate contradictions.

Sophistical teaching - expose ignorance of 

Socrates goes further to inquire for truth.

Questions problems with knowledge (being, gaining knowledge), conduct (ethics), governance, knowing that they are interlinked.

8. Skepticism (boring, played once)
Search for Truth

Search for truths similar to mathematical theories, because they are ultimate, immutable truths.

How to search if not with perception? Argue, not with rhetoric, or victor. Contemplate within oneself.

Contemplation is lost with the distraction of life and perception, everyone has experience, how to distinct people if not by the basis of experience? I guess some kind of time spent with oneself.

9. Can virtue be taught?*
Join a community that fits ones eccentricities. "To each his own".

There are no truths, objective.

Can virtue be divided into parts?

Once virtue has been attained, how does one stay there?

Sparta refused reducing its laws to writing as they saw it as weak, and won a war. There is something about moral excellence that defies academic exercises or pedagogy.

One is not virtuous temporarily, but the person is virtuous if they have a quality that shows in ever case, from their actions, every time, obedient to a principle. Courage comes from virtue, confidence. Confidence comes from knowledge of risk, not ignorance. Nothing is more mightier than knowledge.

Virtue doesn't just come from senses, but it's some universal principle, knowledge.

How to teach virtue, without it being sensory?

Behaving virtuous is not enough.

Another ingredient needed to learn is wisdom, knowledge gained from philosophical reflection.

One needs to have the intelligence， born to be receptive.

One need a to be receptive. It's an active, interactive act.

Protagoras, Man is the measure of all things. There is not truth except those that individuals deem true as opposed objective.

Socrates would refutes that.

10. Plato's Republic
Russel Bertrand said fascist.

Political science.

Can an unjust reach a flourishing life?

Justice, is it a virtue?

Things that are good, independent: harmless things.

Things that are good from consequences: health.

Things are good from acts: gymnastics, money.


Things are good from their intrinsic value.

11. Hippocrates and the Science of Life

Regarded health as a natural science, as opposed to religion.

Empirically learned.

Ancient Greeks were perfectionists. Hellenism can be compared to NASA and landing on the moon.

12. Aristotle on the Knowable
Regarded as the first great scientist, natural science.

All men desire to know. For example, the delight we take in our senses, especially sight.

Science starts with sensory perception.

Cognition. All animals have it.

Rationality. Only humans have it.

Universal truths from cognition requires rational powers.

Links psychology with natural science: nutrition, reproductive organs, locomotion, perception organs, reacting to it.

Difference between knowledge from a book as opposed to experience? Knowing a math formula as opposed to experiencing math.

Learn cause of things, what is cause?

Nature has purpose. A design.

Intelligent plan to create something original.

To know what a thing is, is to know its purpose.

Does it exist? What is it's relation with other things? What is it for?

How does it fit in to the rest of the world?

Design goes further than the material that they are composed of.

One should not ask about an instance of a subject from another subject.

When one tackles large subjects such as politics, sociology, ecology, one should look for the precepts, in at large, not the precision.

13. Aristotle on Friendship
人是社會的動物，政治的。
People are social animals, political.

People trend toward cities.

什麼時候有［政治的］運動，城市創設了，援助不同的人。
Whenever there is a movement, a polis is formed, with diverse peoples.

一次人口張多多的，城市忘記它的第一意思。
Once the population grows past a certain point, the city forgets its initial ideas.


為什麼城市長大民的小組？ 不需要城市。
Why grow larger than families, ethnic enclaves.

Types of friendships:
Selfish:
Will only survive as long as the pleasure does. Can be addictive.

Sensual
Utility

Unselfish:
Each friend wants what's good for their friend for their friend's sake.

Encourage, nourish each other.

Sharing of principles.


This kind of friendship is rare, only between equals, those worthy.
--

But if that were the case, how are polises ever formed?

How unequal do people have to be to not form a polis? Large, the difference between humans and gods.

For example, in an opera the people on the stage perform to a fine and refined part of the audience. Singers have a talent in virtue of the audience's good taste and aesthetic breeding. A mutual respect, like a good friendship. The si

Similarly one could constitute a polis without equal levels of virtue.

Virtue comes in two senses.
Intellectualism: creative, technical, scientific, art. Acquired through practice.

Moral: acquired through wide experience.

Neither are innate.

A virtuous person lives without questioning how.

Task of virtue is to have rationality to control passions, being moderate, prudent.

A polis presupposes family...


Ones identity is tied to the polis and family. Without them one could not become. Just a harthless, stateless, lawless man.

Mobs mobs are not virtuous, they are hedonous.

The administrative government must be a virtuous group of friends.

Aristotle and the Perfect Life
Toward knowledge.

Help others not through just reaction (saving someone from a well), but an agent of action must exist.

Contemplate the best things, not just anything. Philosophy not the stock market or something. The stock market is transitory.*

Why should one be virtuous? Why should one do anything?

Happiness.*

Not just pleasure. Not some enlightened point. A mode of life, to live a flourishing life.

Comfort, having food and drink are instinctual responses, does not count as seeking happiness.

To have access to eudynomia is to have a rational life and capable of seeing rich potentiality.

A contemplative life. A fulfilling life. Doing it for its sake. Children at play. Deep cognitive, spiritual gratification with devotion to things that matters the most.

Not of lonely contemplation, but an active one. We are l social animals by the way.

Live with like-minded people. Seek friendship.

Law is what a rational mad would habitually do if given a choice. Law conduces a virtuous conduct. But also renders people for friendships.

Laws attracts people, not though punishment, but to provide a harmonious life, like a good friend.

A contemplative life is an activity, not through just daily life activity, but taking ones self away from it all and contemplate. Not just a philosopher, but a practical person with great philosophy, like Alexander the Great. Choice between contemplation and making the world conform  to ones best judgements.


Rome, the Stoics, and the Rule of Law:
Stoicism by Xenos
Epicurism by Epicurism

Stoicism:
Stoic ontology is physical. Everything must be acted upon, except gods.

Reality is governed by law. And so should man.

Wisdom is good in itself.

Have a natural affinity to the rules of conduct.

What defies reason? Emotions. Apathea, cognitive failure, ignorance.

Evil is irrationality, unnatural. Not a defect, as religion would say.

Epicurism:
What comes to mind: the maxim, Live like you will die tomorrow.

To reduce the likelihood of suffering. Pleasure, eliminate pain.

Have some friends to rely on.

Don't do anything that if absent causes pain.

Outside the public, in a private estate, non-materialistic. A hippie.

Comparison:
A stoic brings about the thought of a senator in Rome.

A stoic, has something in common with the public, and can make some influence people, to organize people, practically. Epicureans cannot.

Stoics give one relaxation, that individuals do have a little determinism, degrees of freedom, as oppose to total life by nature.

....meh conclusion.

16. Stoic bridge to Christianity
Meh, stopped in two minutes.

17. Roman Law
Rome's greatest contribution to civilization.

Siciro:
His essay, de legulas
What is the essence of law?
What forms of law are there?
What of law should be understood?
What is that law matches with us?

Universal precepts.

Rational principles that all humans have.

Not taught.

Natural Law.

There is a difference between traffic violations and stealing a car.

Emperors of Rome all understood law.

The law of nature is installed by all creatures of nature. [including humans]

There's a side of multiculturalism that castes fundamentally people so different from other people. Every philosopher rejects this. There is no tribe so primitive or no culture so backward.

Any creature that rejects law, is not because it has a different culture, but one that the law regards as insane, not intelligent yet, retarded, incapable of cognitive processing.

Reward and punishment requires law.

Cultural variations exist through hetereogeneity, but still all people are  fit for law.

18. The Light within St. Augustine on Human Nature

Anti-intellectualism (not pleading of the vulgar to those better)

"Greek Pagan" - disdain for the world
Christianity 

Skepticism of Philosophy. Uses god as guide. Knowledge and conduct do not related to the real world.

City of man and city of god are radically different.

The likeliness of a religion lasting is greatly reduced if the religion is anti-intellectual attitude.

Isolated communities have staying power for religion. Isolation can occur geographically or simply by language barrier.

Promulgated by teaching, some algorithm is needed to convert to another set of beliefs, only an intellectual can do. From philosophy to religion.

Cannot get to faith naturally.*

Faith, hope, love.

True wisdom is the fear of god, wrote St. Augustine:

Brotherhood.

All of which is absent in philosophy.

Problem of gods supernatural existence.

Capable to know by conception without perception. Think of a thousand sided polygon.

Certain precepts cannot be rationalized, things that are only subject to faith.

19. Islam
People revere the Quran as the word of god, there is no variation, and analysis does not matter to them.

A mandate to think and reason clearly, lead to intellectual life. A contemplative life.

Easy to cast Islam radically different compared to the West, regarding contemporary situations.

Dark ages are considered dark because they lack philosophical findings.

Byzantine preserved classical sources, which by the time Islam found, the West long lost them.

Inspired by Plato, "that until philosophers become kings and kings become philosophers there will be no justice in the world", Al-Farabi felt the west would never have such and consider them infidel, sought to it that there must be a prophet from which all writings respect for the teachings of the prophet.

Any rejection is considered infidel. Only two worlds, those that believe and war-zone.

Used classical texts to verify their religion, interpretation leads to politicizing.

Christians did the same, built economy, politics, leading to heresy several times. (Religious wars)

Why is this inevitable?

How do religions solidify? By developing a candidate, faithful are obedient to the teaching, text that settles part of the great debates.

Once people challenge it, the philosophy program stops, debates continue until something intellectually teachable arises.

In medieval world, the world is some kind of metaphor, transitory, between ultimate enteral reality, as shown in chivalry.

Disease and illness are shown as sin. Adams folly? 

Long Debate:
The basis of philosophy: what is knowledge, conduct, governance

How to end it? To declare win, opponent os unworthy, speak less.

Greatest threat to the continuation of a debate is orthodoxy.

Orthodox: the right way to see things, that every other way is wrong.
 
Debate becomes heresy.

If you put everything together [religion] you get fundamental conviction, hostel to debate.

Islam achieved the revival of the long debate, offering another language, culture.

Planted the seeds of controversy, skepticism, heresy, the product of disinterested inquiry.

There are certain things not be questioned to aggressively, unutterable, like in many communities.

How to secure it? Make sure skeptics and heretics do not get a full hearing.

Life of Quran is a life compatible with the long debate.

20. Secular Knowledge and the idea of University

Charlemagne:
Not the most literate, but an extraordinary strategic military leader.

Al Quinn would help build schools under Charlemagne, and even teach him in a school setting, setting an example to the world, at the University of Paris.

Over 500 years, universities increased teachings from 3 to 7 subjects.

The self-perfection institution is the university, not trade schools, whose goals are to get a job.  Professors were paid by the lecture, sometimes depending on the quality of each.

After the school became too beauracratic, a group of scholars went off to found the University of Oxford.

How from 700 to 2000 did technology and all knowledge (urban planning, etc.)? The university.

University - a place, where the method of invention is invented, criticizes it's own core precepts, where people refine themselves through debate, inquiry, rhetoric, philosophical introspection.

Gothic cathedrals:
Incredible, beauty, ambitious, freedom in art, technically excellent.

Manners and serfs:
Communities where everyone works for the glory of god.

Chivalry:
How can jousting and romanticism be useful?

The chivalric knight is on top of the hierarchy, a rational being, inspired by god. Ritual sacrifice as a form of nobility. Politeness as strength. Control of emotions. Only insult is honor. One of the great civilizing influences in the history of civilization.

21. Reappearance of Experimental Science (useless chapter, very historical)

(Italian) Renaissance - 1300-1400AD, rebirth of classical period, yet quite different from Hellenistic culture, just certain classical elements

Abelard - 158 propositions:
Ontological metaphysical universals - grouping of dogs with certain attributes

Revival of experimental science:
Already exists in Ancient Greece, Aristotle, now two folks from Oxford:
Robert Gross Atesta
Roger Bacon

Scientific inquiry otherwise in the life of faith.

Aristotelian canon revived: apply senses to god, the integrate to a rational framework, working on the facts of the world, governed by universal laws.

"The principles of experimental science, without experience nothing can be sufficiently known."

Two modes of acquiring knowledge, reason and experience. Reason is not valid, and will be doubted until through experience.

Systematic, disciplined experience.

Probability inference. If something happens most of the time, it's okay to assume that it the truth.

22. Scholasticism and the Theory of Natural Law
Thomas Inclines - Theory of Law

Requires a rational organization.

Man uses reason, free will, even with laws with reward and punishment.

Nature matters.

Start with an ideal, flourishing life and then create laws to conduce a good life, and figure out what's needed for an essential life.

Why not start with anyone, insane people? Those laws would be quite different.

Thomas felt Aristotle understood early instruction, politics, corruption, but missed theological virtues: faith, hope, and charity.

Charity:
Without charity there would be something wrong with ones moral makeup.

Faith:
Aristotle: Superstitious rejection of sense. Inclines: grace of god provides salvation, and a hope of a future eternal life.

Conduct:
Before: be decent. Inclines: deep devotion.

Restraint, sharing, sympathy, etc.

Law is an ordinance of reason promulgated by one who has responsible for the good of the community. Restrains. Encourages. Assists in the control of the passions.

Law is natural.

Culprit: Desire. Pleasure. Hedonistic oriented, who'd rather have gratification now at all costs. Addiction to desire.

What's best is a healthy family life, shun evil, potential to develop virtues, including theological virtues.

23. Renaissance
有沒有文藝復興？

What was revived that died? Ancient Greece as opposed to middle age interests?

Albertise treatise on architecture:

Nicholas Five:

Reminds the professor of Von Uksful said, "All art are aspires to music, conformity with principles of harmony as witnessed in mathematics."

Brubaleski:
Buildings in it's civic context.

Should poor live with rich?

The city is a place where a person learns ideas and realize ideas.

Harks Greek expression "Man is taught by the polis."

Leonardo Bruni:
History of Florence:
One can move to different cities.

Finished Renaissance?

24. Let us burn the witches to save them
1400-1700 （through Newton!)

With current technical knowledge, and some of the smartest minds, people still felt this was the right thing to do.

Romans thought them to have some powers. Push a cart, pick up some spices, make a concoction. White magic. Romans did not care for them, no reason to spend court time.

Harmful witchcraft, Romans use the law solely based on responsibility / consequence, a cow's death, not how.

Christianity:
Moral for praise and blame is logically tied to freedom...

--
On second listen:

Explored how people could believe or allow in the supernatural, to the point of creating a large book about how to handle witches by law whom most  royalty signed, and how the laws at the time did not allow the defendant to defend.

31. Hume and the pursuit of happiness

Englishman, part of Scottish enlightenment, wrote treatise on human nature on hiatus for three years in Paris in 1729(?), 1751 inquiry concerning the principles of morals is more accessible.

Experimental reason on moral philosophy.

Hutchinson:
....

Boring, skipping

32. Thomas Reid and the Scottish Enlightenment

Common sense philosophy.
Inquiry of the human mind.

Focus on experience, not armchair metaphysics. Optics.

Meh.

33. France and The Philisophs
Leonardo Da Vinci

Bunch of people...

Russo:
Reject authority, civilization, formalized education, for freedom, blah blah.

Someone:
Humans like machines are matter in motion.

Meh..

34. Federalist papers

Made tirelessly in a hotel in a Philadelphia.

Level of Aristotle's politics, and almost Plato's republic.

Madison, Witherspoon.

Stopped at 20 minutes, dazing out. Political advancement, blah blah.


35. What is Enlightenment? Kant on Freedom.

Kant:
All of my interests of my reason, speculative and practical all rely on these questions:
What can I know?
What ought I do?
What can I hope?

What is enlightenment? Intellectual freedom. Freedom to make ones public use of one's reason in all matters. Basically, freedom to express own ideas.

Critique of Pure Reason - limits of reason, what one can hope
Critique of Pratical Reason - conduct
Critique of Judgement - aesthetics

Bio:
Lived a routine life, never leaving 50 miles from his house.

Reason:
Hume, woke up Kant:
Everything we know is based on experience.

Moral is passion and sentiment, self interest, utility.

Kant:
separates experience from experience of its a basis on another experience: a priori and post priori.

Causality.

There's a framework that everything belongs to, pure intuitions: time and space. Pure categories of the understanding: quantity, quality, modality, and relation.

Hume:
All bachelors are unmarried men.
* analytic proposition, can be known a priori

Bill wears shoes.
* synthetic proposition because there is no causality, can not be know a priori

Kant:
Whatever event takes place in time-space framework and and has pure categories, and these things are known a priori.

World of phenomenon (things known by perception within Kant's framework), and the world of neumann (pure world, without humans mental perception).

41. Nietzsche and the Twilight*
Very relatable to any artist.

Philosophy through aphorisms, as opposed through academia.*

Considers Kant a cow.

Self-loathing, pessimism, suffering is a goal, come to grips to it, then begin to see the light, suffer with dignity

Will to power:

Schopenhauer:
The world who's will and representation:

The world is my idea, no truth is absolutely certain, and this whole world is an object to a subject.

The primary aim is the will to live, and render action.

Neitzhe:
Will to power:
Dionysus and Apollo.

Blames Socrates for putting more emphasis on Apollo.

Know what we so is a sublimation from instincts, which later affects Freud's pyxhoanalysis.

Oberman, will over come man, the mechanical people. Greatest experience? The hour of contempt, when happiness, reason, and virtue arouse your disgust.

Comparison to Girter.

Although full of hate, he cares for authentic people, who take action toward progress. Creativity and destruction.

How did we come to see reality in view of  rationality, sweetness. How did we fail to notice what deeply moved us?

Christianity is servitude, an innocent childish god, because they teach others to be mechanical. The Jews even worst, compacts, covenants. Comfort.

Suffering is a goal, self-loathing and the misery of him who is over come. The suburban house. Human relationships are based on habit and sloth. And in the depths of suffering that one finally looks for a palliative, and it rejects that life, the death of that life, once one comes to grips to the previously repressed and subliminated life, only at that point you can see the light of the tunnel, and you are going to stay in that tunnel, and make the best of it. This is the beginning of knowing what is right and true.

To know one self is to know a dividing nature. The best thing is that it might suffer with a kind of dignity. One makes one self-worthy of one's self.

He died, collapsed, found hugging a horse that was suffering.

40. The Aesthetic Movement
The point of life is to perfect self, and through aesthetics, which inclines us to Greek and Latin - Homer, Epicurius, Shakespeare, etc. Not learn dead languages, and now don't have to as they have been translated. The whole point of reading the classics is not to make just a book reviewer, but,  just as aesthetics, is to make a rational being ever more rational, and achieve sweetness and light.

Also to learn aesthetics through literature.

We are never so authentic of ourselves than when we are at play, and one of the greatest productions of play is art.

The birth of America is the death of art. Conflict between the world of idea and the practical, or spirit and thing.

After touring the states, some dude said, of all the countries one would least want to live in, next to Russia, is the United States. What did he think was missing? Not power, wealth, or politics. It just isn't interesting. What makes a country interesting is it's capacity to inspire awe, which it does chiefly through the creation of beauty.

59. Aesthetics: 
Diotama had a great quote  from her dialog:
The confusion from quick and passion, if these are to be overcome, one must be habitually exposed. Search beauty, Soon will perceive form of one beauty is of another, and beauty of every form is one of the same (learning one beauty is a small thing). Then love all beautiful things. Then will find the beauty of mind over outward. Then find beauty of institution, then beauty of family not personal, then science and law. At last, Absolute of beauty. Is that life above all other in the contemplation of beauty absolute.

Medieval:
Nature, physical, sensational things were seen as transitory and misleading. Sensual forms of realism were replaced with symbolism.

Italian Rennasaince:
Aesthetic theory. Taste - right judgement, recognition of beauty.

Humes:
Object themself are not beautiful, it's the sentiment of the observer. Universal tendencies exist, Homer. The observer must be healthy to have standards of taste.

?:
All art mediums can be judged by one with good taste.

Berk:
Sublimity is aroused by danger and power, like that from animals and princes.

Kant:
Judgement on an aesthetic level
1. Disinterested. Not utility. The object itself causes pleasure, not in function or extrinsic value
2. Universal, not personal. By people comparably positioned and comparably competent. Without this, there would be no way to disagree about the beauty of the object.
3. Necessary connection between properties of the object and pleasure (experience). Implicit (absolute), not contingent (chance).
4. Having purpose, though not serving one. Ex. A real landscape is more beautiful than a painting, but the painting has purpose.

Four moments of aesthetic judgement:
1. No association with morals, not based on sensuous properties.
2. Declaring truth in aesthetic properties
3. Sense of achievement.
4. Result of non-contingent principle - dependent on existence, some vague thing like common sense

Genius is the mental predisposition, talent, which gives way to art.

Kant and Hume sepearate it from politics, any other things, art for art.

G.E. Moore:
Adding a beauty to the world, whether observers exists or not, the beauty still exists. (I thought about earth at its current state, and all its man-made structures.)*

Our task is to find beauty.*

51. Ontolagy
Nature of being

Kant's Critique of Pure Reason:
Saying something exists, does not add anything to a conception, independent from mental construction.

Analytic (scientific) and Synthetic (experiential) propositions can all be held true.

Klein:
All statements can be true, by pleading hallucination.

Science is a tool ultimately for predicting future experience in light of past experience.

Does a percept / concept have meaning, without mental and linguistic properties?

Humans
Psychology essentialiize things, to make the outside world more coherant. Essences are not just merely observable features, but some internal intrinsic feature that causally brings about these things.

Executive Causation - some cause, something central, everything has some essence. An apple is known whether rotten or not.

Rich Inductive Potential - knowing something is an apple, allows us to predict things we haven't experienced about apples

Nature between universals.

Are there higher order things for these apples to grow on things and have the properties they have?

Peter Abbalard:
Universals are based on experience of real things. Mankind encompasses humans.

Locke:
Nominal an real essence of things:
Ultimate reality is microscopic. Real essences affect the sensory apparatus which results in color, duration, pitch, etc. Its the real essences which we experience that our mind then cognizes and categorizes. The roundish, red, sweet-tasting, object from the tree is an apple.

Reality as perceived, conceptualized, name.

Cyanide gas is made of chemical elements, which in fact is made of smaller subatomic elements. Gas is poisonous, which cannot be derived from it's chemical make-up (requires knowledge of humans).

But what about things that change over time?

Martin Heiddeger's Being and Time:
Begin as an entity then essences are derived over time, cultured.

Man acts as as though he was the master and shaper of language, while in reality language is is the master.*

What a there is depends on what our culture, in it's current development says.

Roraty:
Sentences are a way to pave the way.

Penrose:
Ultimate reality is formal relational properties and subject to mathematic analysis.

Reality is not a linguistic invention or a cultural invention.

Pulliani:
Personal Knowledge:
History of science is laced with intuitive knowledge tacit* knowledge. Scientists made great leaps without being to explain why, but with this hidden knowledge, then later explain what they know through writing or demonstration.*

We know more than we can. For example: most people cannot detail physically how a bicycle works.

Kant:
Postulate.

Modality. Possibility, impossibility. Existence, non-existance. Necessity, non-necessity.

What is possible? Possible by causality? How do potentialities become understood?

To make these claims, it must follow science.

Why does anything exist? Answered in the last lecture.

52. Philosophy of Science:
Everything is is now a science, political, social, botany, Scientology.

Hempel:
Aspects of science?:
To qualify an event as science, must be empirical. 

The deductive nomilogical explanation
The inductive nomological explanation

Few universal laws exist, for example, psychology and biology do not have any.

Statistical laws are reliable enough until a universal law is found.

Some problems exist, and the professor gives two counter-example.

Todo: started sleeping giving this.

William Dre:
Historical events are unique.

Van Francesa:
Quality of explanation is based on the quality of the question.

Cartwright
Considered a realist.

The Dappled World:
Science is not enough to explain the complexities of social, and other factors.y

Karl Popper:
Statements are merely verification.

Going to the moon, can be reduced to rocket science, but going there assesses reality.

53. Philosophy of Psychology
Diversity from how the retina works to what makes a joke funny. (What makes a joke funny?).

Aristotle:
Anima

simple animal - nutrition

Complex animals - sensation, rationality
...

Kinda boring for first 15 minutes, just history of psychology.

Behaviorism:
?

Cognitive science.

Method if inquiry:
Indentify response indicator, reception of stimulus, sample them statisitically, mostly with rats

Attempts to test emotions were ultimately useless for all real world practical uses, because how does one emulate really deep, complex motions in a lab setting?

Same with thought, memory, motivation. People have different dispositions, experience, genetics.

...

Nomothetic - does not rely on statistics
Idiosyncratic - ?

...

The best model of a cat is a cat, preferably the same cat.

Leaders in the cognitive revolution have been aloof to language, especially from the Wittgenstein quarter. Very little to the power of language. Much of philosophy is based on grammer, which leads us to model it but unsure if that's the right model, because it's not the real thing -- a mind.

54. Philosophy of Mind
Descartes duality vs monality

Problems of mind:

Problem of representation:
External world is an arrangement of matter of energy.  Physical world and what is sensed are different. Humans cannot sense ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation.

Colors are a representation of something physical.

Furthermore, that physical thing could be represented differently to other animals, or some disease or evolution of humans.

A ball, smooth, spherical.

Frank Jackson's What Mary didn't know:
Grow up with books in confiement, without the light of day.

Can learn things without experience? (Not sure)

--
Nothing about physics says a rose smells sweet. Qualia - roundness, experience of perception

Two theories without consciencness:

Thomas Henry Huxly:
Epiphenomenon - states of mind are byproducts of complex physical systems. Like when a wheel squeaks from a horse carriage.

Can all of what humans achieved be simply from cause effect, without conscienceness?

Not entirely impossible, have a human body, attach electrodes, stimulate the correct sequence to paint a painting, sign a treaty.

Todo: did not understand second argument about clones

What is something without consciencness? A zombie.

The success of science does not help zombies.

Identity theory:
What are the references of qualia? All qualia relate to congruous events and actions in sensory apparatus.

Rhyles:
Challenge linguistics, not qualia.

In lesser animals, different nervous systems exist, functions are performed to yield adaptive success.
--

Not just math, which a computer can do.

Translate mental into functions which produces the correct output.

Daniel Dennett:
Intentional stance:
Goal directed actions, emotions. Examine components.

Kasparov lost to IBMs Deep Blue.

Best understanding of our mental functions is AI.

If a computer with a sufficient database is better at diagnosis than a general practioner...

Even if one creates a computer with good judgement, emotions, it's still not understood how it really works. (Don't understand).

58. Justice and Just Wars
Issue of individual rights, respect individual's dignity.

Socrates:
Criteria to judge character

Plato:
Justice of state, judged by harmony of peace, do the right thing

Aristotle and Cicero
Convention, law

Cannot be a just state, it's a virtue.

...
Diogenes:
Opposed classes and slaver

St. Augustine:

55. What makes a problem moral?
Difference between moral law, mistake, and etiquette.

Morals are subjective.

Different in culture, time, and place.

Slavery is wrong, but it existed for a long time and exists in other parts of the world, and in the west from Ancient Greece to Thomas Jefferson.

Is an immoral act justified when it leads to a greater good? Does that make it moral?

Kill 2 or 10? If the group of 10 are your friends? If you don't move you die and if you act you kill?

Actions are based on moral principles.

David Hume:
An inquiry concerning a principle of morals:
~Our action of moral is based on some internal feeling that our nature is universal.

Theory of moral sentiments:
Natural sense (sentiment)

Thomas inclines:
If our nature was different, our duties would be different.

Practically universal moral. Our purposes of actions.

Aristotle
Eudaimonia - ultimate goal of action is securing some measure of happiness. Or, to lead a flourishing rational being.

Now the question is to be please or repelled by what?

It must be empirical.

Hume:
Vice and virtue are perception, like color. Actions and events may arouse pleasure or revulsion. Morality depends on these states.

A. J. Iyer:
Moral concepts are psuedo-concepts, not analyzable. Emotion has not truth, it's simply a feeling.

Hume:
Moral does not derive from a fact from a real world.(?)

Moral can be wrong without feeling, without thinking about it, as slavery was.

Evolutionary theory can lead to variance in morality, so morality is just some social norm.

If moral discourse is reducible to evolutionary behavior, then there can't be a standard moral. This also makes any sort of moral disagreement possible.

G. E. Moore:
What if two people disagree in the degree of actions without knowing each other's sentiment?

John Stuart Mill:
Utilitarian - meh, no standard, not useful on specific situations

Kant:
Practical reason:
Good will. Consequences are not much, it's the will.

Reverence for law, moral law within individual, not some standard.

If one is able to will to a universal law.

Forbid use of another person as a tool, and always an end of one self.

Bases morality on reason.

Leaves problem of moral relativity.

Realist vs non-realist (from science lecture)
Realist - really operating physical world
Non-realist - ideal, tool as investigation, usefulness

... (Described difference)

G. E. Moore:
... (More easily described difference)

Socrates:
Beauty and justice are but the same. (Meaning beauty and justice are universals found within individuals)

56. Medicine and the Value of Life
 ... (Goes over few concepts from last lecture)
 
 Is Einstein more valuable than a convicted rapist? Is the value of life constant with different age?
 
 What is the unit of value?
 
 Who decides what's valuable?
 
 ...
 Kant:
 On suicide:
 ...
 Meh
 ...
 Carolyn Quinn:
 If a person is a vegetable, unable to do anything, should the parents be allowed to kill them? What of other subnormal people?
 
 Abortion?
 ...
 

60. God, Really?
Theology.

Reid:
Principle of ... Guh so sleepy. Not active enough.

What is left?:
Stopped at 52.

The last 10 lecture which, for some reason, I don't have much interest in, it seemed mostly like categorization of philosophy into science, but is as the other lectures I wasn't interested in, likely would find interesting after all.

And perhaps redo 40-50, now with comprehensive knowledge.


