old game ideas to explore:
1. ColorPad
2. Doodle Tangle
3. Mime
4. Jenga
5. Pinkies Up
6. Audio Runner
7. Touch and Tilt
8. Pokemon Snap
Battle
*finish RGB
steal animation frames
volleypong
take something complex and make the interface simple
Kaho Abe / Makey like games
Operation!
multi-device game / input / gamepad
trajectory game
slicing / painting / separate screens
multi-layer game (not limited to platformed)
team pole riders
multi-interface game
the cake is a lie
Google Maps games
  - GTA Racing
  - FFVII

create a game that handles drawing on an iPad
create a game that uses computer vision from a webcam
create a multi-device iOS game
create a game that uses input from Kinect
Can all of the frameworks handle this? What is the highest level framework that can handle all of them?

pokemon, gauntlet,

a political game
  - law in real time -- actions take several days to years
    - use historical data to create an accurate system
  - could be complex, or simple and more gamey

RTS for iPad
  - a few chess-like units

1 button, two player game
seemless peer to peer games
oF/VS2010

communist propaganda game
a game that uses Google's voice recognition
an RPG that takes place at home
  - sounds like Earthbound
camera perspective game
copy paste 3d

Infinity World:
3D space game. Asteroid belts, planets, gravitational pull, black holes, comets, etc. Exists? Generated space game?

Generated sprites consisting of multiple shapes. Shapes with legs! Lol. Each new land/world has a new sprite (species). Speak a generated language. Generate their animations. Use stick arms and legs. Like the Monty Python sketch.
Take a 3d game world, but make the character very small

from molydeux:
imagine living in a world where all anyone can do is hurt each other. You on the other hand, your only ability is to hug those around you.

Can you visualise a world where horizontal is impossible? You are forever falling or attached to verticals?

Game where you play a life support machine in a hospital but during the night you turn into a diseased rat.

Imagine if you will a game where you are a door willing people on to open you.

Is it possible to make a videogame with no animation? does input always require animation?
- change variables of an autonomous npc

A game that comes with 4 pairs of specs. Each one changes the way the game world looks, so you have to keep changing them to get through.
- YES
- interactive puzzle game!



see blog post

infinite world

3d
audio feedback
big games


cooperative 4 player physics game - the players have to cooperate to move a funky organism about and void enemies
4 player game like uprock! - beat game, rotates players, like horse, but continues


new game idea based on emotions:

how to make the player feel certain emotions with play?

touch
tablet

the feelings of touching can indicate a connection (weary at first, then okay)

not wanting to touch enemies (afraid)

tapping (impatient)

doodling (idle)

have to condition the player first--it's okay to touch an ally but not okay to touch the enemy
then can alter it later




