decided to create a new file and leave the 6 year old on there.

jon blow’s thoughts on games for education:
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=qWFScmtiC44

He goes over mediums, non-verbal communication, etc, in addition to even more obvious things...

**He obliviously misses out on what happens if a person who doesn’t have real-world experience only experiences it through a game.**

A few of the better points are:
from a comment:
“Nice talk!
Around 21:00 Jon makes a famous point, originally by Marshall McLuhan: "The medium is the message."
Around 40:00 it's a very nice topic as well. Image is read in a different way (and perhaps processed easier, I'm not knowledgeable about this) than the letters and language. For example video game medium also has immersion (spatial presence) that is wired differently in our brain as well.
Around 1:13:11 he touches upon abstraction of real world phenomena in video games. One of my favorite topics. So basically not carrying real world complexity of things into a video game, rather simplifying to focus communication. Though he is not talking about this topic in particular of course, I just caught a reference.
Around 1:38 basis for iconography”




* convey an idea clearly, without distractions
* games are not / cannot be reality

The juicy part: a cave-man draws the back of a girl’s hair, realizes, it’s very easy / more clear to recognize it if it is drawn with simple broad strokes, and out-line. In this way, the drawing becomes a symbol. Symbols are combined with other symbols to represent ideas beyond a single image... and thus language was born. (in the video is frame that shows the evolution of languages from pictures (hieroglyphs) to symbolic letters (Chinese)
  - **for Jon, we are only at the first stage, of only figuring out how to represent ideas as symbols, how merely drawing a braid of hair more simply, of making a clearer representation. Few people seem to have figured out how to do that. We aren’t good at it. And we’re very far from combining those symbols to represent larger concepts.**