1. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iliad

summary:
…it tells of the battles and events during the weeks of a quarrel between King Agamemnon and the warrior Achilles.
  - war, and two that argue

Although the story covers only a few weeks in the final year of the war, the Iliad mentions or alludes to many of the Greek legends about the siege; the earlier events, such as the gathering of warriors for the siege, the cause of the war, and related concerns tend to appear near the beginning. Then the epic narrative takes up events prophesied for the future, such as Achilles' looming death and the sack of Troy, prefigured and alluded to more and more vividly, so that when it reaches an end, the poem has told a more or less complete tale of the Trojan War.
  - interesting structure for an early piece of literature

synopsis analysis:
b1.
Agamemnon begins problem by refusing ransom of a priest, then irrationally takes another captain’s girl.

Priests are pretty important, as they can sway gods, lol.

Gods are the karma of the world, making sure everything is sort of right, rational, inciting human action.

b2.
If a leader tells people to go home, they will.

Some people in the army are discontent about fighting a war for an individual’s war. For a nation to go to war, the people must feel that they must? Be in danger?

Hmm, it seems Homer does go into the origins of people of both sides. That’s pretty good. I thought it was straightforward hero story.

b3:
The leaders of armies duel, and nations agree to the outcomes of the duel’s outcome. So crazy.

Again, with Aphrodite helping Paris, gods show compassion for humans.

b4.
Another battle is started via tit-for-tat, this time, some trojan shot an Achaen leader.

Again, with Zeus’s arrangement pressured by Hera, gods are the cause of problems and solutions.

b5.
Gods argue, humans war.

Diomedes wounded Aphrodite and Ares, a human is able to wound gods?

b6.
Warriors find compassion in each other at times, with their fathers knowing each other. Blood relations are valued very much, but so are good friends.

Hector prays and says farewell to his family. People pray as people do in modern days.

b7.
lol, people don’t battle at night, just like Guineans.

More ransoms for women. Tit-for-tats for wealth.

lol, time is allotted for burning the dead. Such a formal war. Also found in Guinean society — burials.

b8.
Zues prohibits fighting. Is fighting a natural, rational thing to do? I guess this is okay until Achilles is needed.

b9.
By refusing the offer, is Achilles being irrational? Taken over by emotion?

b10.
fight fight.

b11.
fight fight.
persuasive speech.

b12.
fight fight.
omen to Hector.

b13.
fight fight.
seer says “don’t do it!” to Hector.

b14.
Hera seduces Zeus. Even the greatest god can be seduced.
Achaens fight back!

b15.
Zeus figures it out.
Trojans are winning again.

b16.
Patroclus, perhaps moved by Nestor, becomes passionate and fights to his end?

b17.
You obtained armor!
fight fight.

b18.
Achilles revenge for his friend, Patroclus. And thus, dragged into war by it.
Gods incite with armors.

b19.
Gifts given to Achilles, but still not equal, tit-for-tat.

b20.
lol, Zeus let’s the Gods at it, do as they may. I guess his job of honoring Achilles is over.
Achilles slays many.

b21.
Gods fight. Actually fight or just argue more?

b22.
Achilles kills Hector. Reminds him of his fate to die. I guess fate exists at times.

b23.
Burial of Patroclus, war is stopped for a day. This really does sound like the Guinean battle, wow.

24.
Hah, Zeus is dismayed at the abuse of a dead body?

Achilles is moved to tears when the father of Hector comes for his son’s body. Achilles is indeed the human of the story. The two lament.

Hector is buried and the city mourns. The people mourn for their leader’s death.

other notes found on Wikipedia:

Achilles and Patroclus:
Was Achilles homo for Patroclus? That’s possible.

Gods:
Unlike practical Greek religious observance, Homer's portrayals of them [the Gods] suited his narrative purpose, being very different from the polytheistic ideals Greek society used.

whether or not divine intervention is a discrete occurrence (for its own sake), or if such godly behaviors are mere human character metaphors.*

Themes:
Homecoming is important. Kind of is now too, when soldiers come from Iraq. Not good to go home without “winning? Glory.





—