copied from an old note I found in my closet:

order of events:
mistake -> break up -> captured -> search

summary of chapters, in-game images, in-game mechanic
2. Time and Forgiveness
Tim is off to search the princess
princess was captured because Tim made a mistake
one memory: princess turning, braid lashing
What if people forgive? Learn. Hide mistakes.

picture of mistake
rewind

3. Time and Mystery
in order to achieve self-goals, Time must transcend Princess’s caring touch.
caste in the distance

picture of a feast
phase / immune to reversal

4. Time and Place
troubled home, embarrassing childhood
university, an insecure time, a social tightrope
Tim has improved, learned
every place stirs up an emotion, and every emotion invokes a memory
Tim wants her really bad - optimism.

picture of childhood
doppelgänger

5. Time and Decision
princess never quite understood his love for her.
Time leaves his current spouse to find the princess.
His spouse loves him.

picture of airport

6. Hesitance
Tim keeps ring on, ceaseless direction (derision?), hard to make relationships with it, they are hesitant
He pockets the ring, and can hardly bear it.

picture of ring in trash


more notes:

1 (intro?):
Tim hopes to see hints of love from a shop gone.
Tim still thinks of the grand moment of finding the Princess.
How would other residents(?) feel? Burning down home, destroy safety.

end:
Tim encounters the princess.
She runs to her perceived evil husband, scared of Tim.

epilogue:
Time held her, embraced her among the things of Manhatten
*“You’re going the wrong way and you’re pulling me with you”
He worked hard scrutinizing to find a way to get to the Princess.
*The ghost of the Princess said “look at me”, but he was blind.
Time finds a way to manipulate time.
**There’s a memory of a younger Tim at the candy store where everything he wanted was on the other side of the glass.
She held him back with great strength and considered violence.
Tim hasn’t quite understood all of this.
Builds a castle from memories / experience (?)
He feels that he has a lot to learn, but for now, this amount is good enough.

theme: unrequited love, greed of Tim.
Tim’s psychology: obsessive romatic

even more notes:
parallel storyline - 1945 project Manhatten, bomb = time powers? or the bomb = princess?
using alternate methods to manipulate, or going about doing something the wrong way
either way, fits the time racing problem

Tim = Time
twin towers seen from the attic
light to dark music / world
intro - apocalypse or beautiful sunset
backward flag
entire game is reverse, not saving the princess, but running from the knight.

alternate ending:
capture princess, get last star
constellation of a chained princess
the player was as obsessive as Tim, failing to learn



looking back, the story is very simple, but I guess few games ever made it difficult to understand and wanting me to. It also fits the game mechanics well.