Course Description:
How can we act, and how can we be, in relation to what this century makes possible — both as disaster and as human possibility?

The course addresses these wider questions through technology and design.

We will be asking what are the potentials (and limits) of designing and working with technology as modes of acting in the world in the context of this century.

Specifically:
What is artificial?
What can design and technology stand to the artificial?
What are their poetic, critical and affirmative capabilities?
What are their ethics and their politics, their capacities, possibilities and dangers with respect to social innovation and charge?

Pedagogically, the lectures are designed systematically to take you through a series of issues—roughly, from technology to the artificial to design. The aim is to provide conceptual tools to comprehend possibilities of design, and to provoke and question.

The aim of both of these is to help us create a ‘free relationship,’ both to what conditions us and with which me must contend (the artificial) and to these tools and capabilities (technology as a field of possibility, design as creative agency) that we use to try to manage the artificial.
—

The structure of the course: the presentation and sequence of topics:
Part of the aim of the course is to get you to be able to think beyond the present.

… (seems like good pedagogy)

—

We strongly encourage students to begin to read seriously in areas of design thinking and in critical reflection on new technology.

On thinking technology and the artificialKevin Kelley: What Technology Wants (2011)
9/14:
  - founder of Wired, involved in campaign to inventory all living species on earth. Holds meet ups for quantified self. At age 27, he was a freelance photo journalist in Asia.
    - the inventory is a great goal. So much knowledge is hidden in nature.
  - wiki on quantified self: health and wellness applications - activity, sleep, diet, mood, other
  - thoughts on lifelogging: entire lives can be seen and heard. One can live a life through another person. If one is bed-ridden, perhaps this would be a nice way to substitute life? The life of an alternate person?
  - thoughts on quantified self: most applications seem superfluous, data gives stimulus, but reduces free will. Reminds me of those sci-fi movies where wearable tech tells you your life.
  - kk.org*, his website is fascinating
    - “true films”
    - street use - repurposing technology in the developing world
    - also a TED talk*
Jaron Lanier: You are not a Gadget (2010); Who Owns the Future? (2012)
  - *started taking notes in gmail temporarily.
Clay Shirky: Cognitive Surplus (2009)*Shelley Turkle, Alone Together (2011); Evocative Objects (2007); Inner History of Devices (2008)
  - STOPPED HERE.Peter-Paul Verbeek, What Things Do (2005); Moralizing Technology (2011)*Herbert Simon, The Sciences of the Artificial (2003)On thinking designAnthony Dunne, Herztian Tales (2005)Tony Fry, Design Futuring (2009); Design as Politics (2010); Design and Human Becoming (2012)Bruce Sterling, Shaping Things: A Manifesto for the Future of Design (2007) John Thackara, In the Bubble: Designing in a Complex World (2005)
—

Learning outcomes:
The ethos of the course is to encourage reflection and deeper thinking on the possibilities and responsibilities of designing in and for this century. The lectures are focused on developing the capacity to comprehend, in wider terms, both the context and the possibilities of practice. One aim is that students will be able to think reflectively and critically about design practices in order to assess the limits and possibilities of the contributions design can make, both practically and cognitively, to social change. An ideal is that students will be able to analytically position their own design practice within a wider 21st century context, and will be better able to account for some of the shifting parameters of design in relation to global developments.
—

0:
9/21:
Economist-Advertising&Tech_9-13-14.pdf
  - given by Drew
  - this entire article is full of knowledge
  - “One study found that it took only two data points to identify more than half the users.”
  - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flash_Boys

NEED TO PRINT OUT ALL DOCUMENTS, separate by week, then read.


Part 1: 
Technology and the Artificial

Week 1:
Introduction to the course*
The artificial, once seen as merely a tool or means for human ends, becomes the horizon and medium.

The lecture suggests that we need to begin to re-frame our understanding of both: to begin to understand design not just as "professional practice" but as a way of reflecting on, and understanding the possibilities (and dangers) opened by, the artificial, and to understand technology within the larger context of the artificial.

ReadingsQuestions concerning our situationJaron Lanier: Who Owns the Future? (extracts) (2013)
OptimisticMichel Serres: “Thumbelina/Petit Pouchette” (2013)Jeremy Rifkin: “The Third Industrial Revolution: How the Internet, Green Electricity, and 3-D Printing are Ushering in a Sustainable Era of Distributed Capitalism” from The World Financial Review (2011)Available at: http://www.worldfinancialreview.com/?p=1547Eric Schmidt and Jared Cohen: The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Business | 

Chapter 1: Our Future SelvesAvailable at: http://www.newdigitalage.com/ (Click on “Read Sample”)
PessimisticMartin Wolf; “We Will Watch the Rise in Greenhouse Gases until it is too Late to Do Anything About it” & “The Climate Skeptics Have Won” (2013)Tim Harford: “How the Wealthy Keep Themselves on Top” (20120James Bamford: “They Know Much More Than You Think” [On NSA surveillance] (2013)And consider http://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/aug/19/readers-absorb-less-kindles-paper-study- plot-ereader-digitisation

Week 2:
Case Study 1: Cilmate Science as Sensory Infrastructure
Know climate is changing through an computing infrastructure. Uses New York’s rising sea levels as an example.

Readingshttp://www.thewhitereview.org/features/climate-science-as-sensory-infrastructure/
http://www.moma.org/explore/inside_out/category/rising-currents

Week 3:
(Re)-Thinking Technology beyond Technology*
“A decade ago computers and networks were still new enough that they were a worthwhile focus in and of themselves. No more. Computers, networks, social technology and pervasive media are now a given—surrounding us and ever present in our lives and our work as artists and designers. We cannot, however, simply accept this state of affairs as unassailable, nor are we allowed to embrace technology gratuitously: we must frankly evaluate why, how, when, and where (and even whether) we will work with digital technology. Why are we messing with this stuff? What does it mean? Is it good or bad? Which aspects of technology are important, and which are most interesting? Where do things seem to be headed? Can we —should we—resist? There is no possibility of our succeeding as creative in today’s world if we haven’t looked hard at these questions” 

… (go over pessimistic and optimistic observations and cases)

As we have internalized technology in the last decades the question of whether things as well as aiding life also act reductively as “gadgets” or ‘devices” or “apparatuses” working to objectify and in some senses reduce us) becomes urgent. The aim of the talk is two-fold: to explore the implications of the “internalization” of technology and to show how we need to think critically about the relay between things made and how we comprehend what these things do to us and “for” us; to ask whether how we understand technology today is adequate to what technology actually does to us as well as for us. In relation to the second point the lecture will begin to show that the concept of technology we currently work to is historic, and that technology today is no longer, in fact, ‘technology.”

RequiredTheodor Adorno: "On Technology" (extract from Minema Moralia, 1944) Jaron Lanier: You are not a Gadget (2010) (extracts)Douglas Rushkoff: Program or be Programmed (2011) (extracts)Bill Joy: "Why the Future Doesn't Need Us," from Wired magazine (2000)RecommendedEvgeny Morozov: "The Naked and the TED" (2012)Clay Shirky: Cognitive Surplus (2008) (extracts)Ray Kurzweil: The Age of Spiritual Machines | Chapter 1: The Law of Time and Chaos Available at: http://www.kurzweilai.net/chapter-one-the-law-of-time-and-chaosJerry Mander: Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television (1977) (extract)

Week 4. Sept. 18th Shannon Mattern (Media Studies): Case study 2: Scaffolding, Hard and Soft: Infrastructures as Critical and Generative StructuresThe lecture will begin with an overview of what infrastructure is: both hard- and soft conceptions (e.g., wires and protocols, shelving system and classification systems). It will then offers an example examining a “nested” infrastructures across various scales and degrees of (im) materiality. It closes by addressing creative/design challenges posed by infrastructure, and its relevance to and applications in various design fields.
Readings:• Shannon Mattern, “Infrastructural Tourism” Places (July 1, 2013).• Skim through the “Network Archaeology” special issue of Amodern (Fall2013), which offers a highly interdisciplinary take on what the study ofnetworks can uncover• Check out the website for “Lines and Nodes: Media, Infrastructure andAesthetics,” a screening series and symposium taking place at NYUand Anthology Film Archives 9/19 - 9/21For more on Shannon Mattern’s work as a whole click here.Week 6: October 2nd: CD: Thinking the Artificial as the Horizon and Medium of our World.In expanding the notion of "technology" to the artificial the question of design and technology is placed in its proper context. Technology, we can now see is but one aspect of the wider field of the artificial which embraces everything from language and much of our thinking and memory through to the transformation of nature into artifice. This situation marks a new condition of being human. The lecture explores the conditions of the artificial and what it opens. It tries to show how the artificial is not to be thought of as the "technological", but is a far more comprehensive and radical condition. It shows that under the artificial the conditions of our existence undergo fundamental alteration; that both the dangers and possibilities we face change, and that the artificial transforms how we think ourselves as subjects in the world. Crucially, what also changes are the conditions under which we act: law, certainty, contingency, possibility mediation, and ethics are all transformed by the changes wrought by the artificial becoming the totality of our world. We shall see that one way to look at design and technology in this context is to see it as an activity or capacity capable of bringing the artificial to consciousness.
ReadingsRequiredHerbert Simon: The Sciences of the Artificial: "Natural and Artificial Systems (1996) Jamer Hunt: "Prototyping the Social: Temporality and Speculative Futures at the Intersection of Design & Culture" (2011)Clive Dilnot: “Readings to be Cheerful, 1, 2, 3 ... or How the Artificial May Yet Save Us” (2014)—
stopped reading and just copied hereWeek 8: October 16th: CD: Incipient Catastrophe: How do We Act?In the centenary of the outbreak of World War One—the greatest catastrophe of the twentieth century and the one that led almost directly to the horrors of the following decades (Fascism, Stalinism, Maoism, the “Mutually Assured Destruction” of the Cold war)—we arguably face the potential of catastrophes of parallel magnitude. If we appear to have lessened the danger of global nuclear war, proliferation and the intensification of conflicts means the likelihood of local nuclear wars remains very high. But beyond that, much more serious structural dangers are posed by the social, economic and political consequences of global warming and wider climate change, including resource wars (not only over “spoil” as in Africa today, or minerals or oil but also over resources fundamental to life itself); refugee crises, and economic, social and political crises and tensions stemming from these. These crises could be collectively be formulated under the idea of un-sustainment or de-futuring but they can also be characterized as cries stemming from our inability to manage the consequences of what we have created. Whereas the crises and disasters of the C20th were largely political, the potential crises of the C21st are systemic in a deeper sense; they are bound up with the onset of the world-as-artificial. As long ago as 1935 Walter Benjamin saw that the ‘destructiveness of war furnishes proof that society has not been mature enough to incorporate technology as its organ, that technology has not been sufficiently developed to cope with the elemental forces of society.’ One consequence of this is thatReadingsWalter Benjamin: The epilogue to the essay “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction”Martin Heidegger: “Overcoming Metaphysics” (extracts)Jurgen Habermas: Legitimation Crisis (1972) extractsSlavoj Žižek: “The End of Nature” (2010)Clive Dilnot: “What the Artificial Opens Towards/Overcoming Destructiveness” (from Design & The Question of History) (2014)11
Part 2: Designing the ArtificialWeek 9. Oct 23rd: Christian Paul (Media Studies): Case Study 4: Measuring Disturbances: New Media Art | ActivismMedia and media artworks are one way of measuring disturbances in our cultural and socio-political environments and ideally could help societies in adjusting their structures. Media themselves can be seen as a disturbance of reality, being able to technologically record, refocus, edit and replay the world surrounding us and thereby both perturbing and reflecting on it. Any medium and media artwork involves layers of design that shape content and meaning making. Using the exhibition FEEDFORWARD – The Angel of History (LABoral Art Center, Gijon, Spain, 2009) as a starting point, the presentation will address artworks that deal with political and social conditions and comment on their own status — the medium they use, its design, and its relationship to power structures. The themes discussed will include the aesthetics and strategies of the media of our time; the effects of simulated realities; relationships between media and consumerism; the rise of social and participatory media; and the role of art in activating change.Readings:Christiane Paul: Introduction to the exhibition Feed Forward: The Angel of History Walter Benjamin: “Theses on the Philosophy of History”Clive Dilnot: “Acting in Regard to History” (from Design & The Question of History).Week 10: October 30th: CD: Design as Mode of Acting in the WorldThe artificial as our global condition implies a need for a capacity to bring it to self- consciousness and to the level where we can explore its implications for how we dwell. "Design" is the word we give to that capacity, though the word is so abused today that it means almost nothing. How then can we think design, especially when the design professions as such are vanishing, but at the same time "design" is becoming ever more ubiquitous? Building on the connections established between what the artificial opens towards and design shown in week 6, this lecture will show two things: first, that it is best thought of not a discipline or even a field but as a set of intertwined capacities and capabilities; second, that so thought, design can be conceptualized not just as a specialist activity but as a generalizable mode of action in the world. Focusing on factors such as intervention ("design is the devising of courses of action to change existing situations into preferred situations") mediation (of things and persons) and speculative, imaginative and propositional action (design as the exploration of “action-oriented pre-figurative approaches to critically rehearsing the future") the talk will try to map an understanding of design adequate to the demands of this century.ReadingsBruno Latour: “A Cautious Prometheus”Week 11. November 6th: Anne Balsamo (Media Studies): Case Studies 5: Designing Culture through Digital TechnologyIn this sweeping expansion of the classic innovation literature, Anne Balsamo portrays in Designing Culture both the necessity and the challenge of cultivating the technological imagination in all of us. Her experiences as a researcher and designer12
who has worked across cultural domains—as a humanist in the academy, as a research scientist in an industrial innovation center, and as an entrepreneur in Silicon Valley—give her a unique ability to foster conversations among diverse groups of thinkers who want to engage with issues of culture and technological innovation. Balsamo not only describes ways to take culture seriously in the design of new technologies but also elaborates why it is ethically imperative to do so. Her insights into expanding the traditional considerations of socio-technical de- sign to consider issues of culture are coming at a critical time. This is a great book that should be read by anyone interested in creating new technologies of imagination- forenhancing learning in the twenty-first century and creating expressive cultural platforms for the future."- John Seeley Brown, former Chief Scientist of Xerox Corporation and Director of Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC)ReadingAnne Balsamo: Designing Culture (extracts)Week 12: November 13th: CD: The Ethics of Things/Critical DesigningDesign is nothing if it does not address the conditions of human lives. Perhaps this explains why today there is an increased interest in what design as human agency (designing for capabilities) rather than in design as a value in itself or in design as simply an adjunct to accumulation. Thinking of design in this way leads directly to the question of design as ethics and as politics. Countering traditional views of ethics (which always see it as an activity of imposing external norms) this lecture will use Deleuze’s sentence — 'Ethics, which is to say a typology of immanent modes of existence, replaces Morality, which always refers existence to transcendent values’—to capture the ways in which design can be thought of as an ethical practice, especially in terms of our desire for/need for proximity and reciprocity in things that surround us and through which we exist. Focusing first on the ethical ‘unconscious’ of design and then on the question of design-as-politics the lecture will look at design as an aspect of how we ethically and politically make the world and will consider some examples of designers working critically and affirmatively to change social relations.ReadingsElaine Scarry: The Body in Pain (1985) (extracts)Gui Bonsiepe: “Some Virtues of Design”Ralph Caplan: By Design (extracts)Jan van Toorn: “Communication Design: a Social Practice”Anthony Dunne: Hertzian Tales (extracts) (2004)Tony Fry: "Redirection, Design and Things" from Design as Politics (2009)Week 13: November 20th: Veronica Ranner (Royal College of Art): Case Study 6: Biology/Design/InterfacesThe talk will examine the interactions of transient electronics, ubiquitous bio-sensing and design in the context of the exploring biological materials and applications to the human body. The intersection of these disciplines will be demonstrated with the hypothetical application scenario You, I, Silk (UISilk). This propositional design probe explores the possibilities and probabilities of silken high-tech embodied applications of using silk as a medium for transient electronics that can enter the human body. This speculation on potential impact of silk through the lens of organic and non- digital sensing offers an extended perspective on programmable biomarkers, their potential for Citizen Science and current sensing paradigms but also lets us explore the new possibilities, dangers and ethical implications opened by the interaction of transient electronics and data monitoring “applied” to the human body.13
*Veronica Ranner is a designer and researcher with focus on mediating the intersection of design, society and emerging technologies. She holds a degree in Industrial Design from Pforzheim University and an MA in Design Interactions (RCA), has worked as lead designer on the BMBF- funded medical pilot study MμGUARD in the heart defibrillator industry as well as design consultant, e.g. for Cambridge University. Veronica exhibited internationally, e.g. with the Israel Museum in Jerusalem (2012), the Science Gallery in Dublin (2012), the China Technology Museum in Beijing (2012) and most recently, at Ventura Lambrate in Milan (2013) and the French Design Biennale in St. Etienne (2013). She joined the RCA’s Creative Exchange Hub as PhD candidate to explore how innovation and knowledge transfer between biotech and digital spaces might shift our understanding of digital and the matter. By using a wide range of media in her practice, she hopes to encourage the public to question and re- assess their relationship towards technology.Week 14: November 25th TUESDAY: CD: Gentle Technologies/Radical DesigningThe inversion of technology and design that is required in the 21st century can now be understood as the reversal of the relation that obtained from the C18th and earlier: then technology represented and enacted violence—especially upon nature but also on bodies. By contrast, the incomplete but nonetheless still real identification of designing as the mediation of the artificial and the natural, of subject and object— an identification designing has never lost despite its own implication in violence— means that, for the future we require the creation of an inversion, whereby we design ‘gentle technologies’ whilst we identify design as the capacity to realize radical gestures (the re-design of how we as humans stand to climatic systems for example). On what basis might this be done? How do we re-conceive technology as “gentle”? How do we grasp designing as our “chance”?Wojech Gasparski: "A Designing Human Society: A Chance or a Utopia" (1982)Tony Fry: "Introduction" & "The Imperative" from Design Futuring (2008)Tony Fry: "Facing Finitude" and "Inadequate Solutions of Now" from Design as Politics (2010) (extracts)Week 15. Dec 4th: Edward Keller (Parsons): case Study 7: Thinking Beyond Limits: Techno-Political Futures of the ArtificialDesign thinking and technological thinking is always thinking about, through, and in TIME. When we design, we define future horizons for systems and people based on the world systems we're familiar with, and we utilize complex socio-technical legacies, which we often are largely unconscious of. This talk looks at a few examples (largely from film and text) which offer approaches that could help us maintain a design thinking approach that simultaneously engages the 'near and far' in human and global systems. The talk also sets up a framework to critically evaluate both the real and conceptual apparatus [tools and models], which we use as designers, exposing some of their strengths and weaknesses. We will ask some key questions:—How can we construct practical, technical and intellectual models of systems that wecan then use as tools in the design process?—What scales of time are we working with when we do tech/culture/ design and thinking? —How do we mix the sociopolitical world of design with the different timescales of the natural world?—To what degree do humans really have 'agency' in their design thinking and the production of artifacts?—What are the connections between objects, humans, populations, systems, and landscapes?14

Films and ReadingsFilms [Links made available for students to watch before class]:
Blowup [Antonioni]Nostalgia for the Light [Guzman]Code46 [Winterbottom]
Readings:RequiredPaul Virillio, The Vision Machine (1994) (excerpt)BackgroundFrederic Jameson, The Geopolitical Aesthetic (1995) (excerpt) Frederic Jameson "Fear and Loathing in Globalization" (2003) (excerpt) Novels:The Drowned World (1962) J. G. Ballard (excerpt) The Shockwave Rider (1975) John Brunner (excerpt) Rainbows End (2006) Vernor Vinge (excerpt)Week 16. December 12th: CD: FinaleTBD

