film reviews:

Drive:
A modern take of a Hollywood noir. A neo-noir? It retains all of the characteristics of noir: hard-edged guy falls in love with the girl next door, guy may die to save her, dark atmosphere, lighting focus on characters, etc. It goes all in with the daft music, pink font credits, and Ryan Gosling. And it works superbly. Another screenwriter's film. I don't know how it's based on a book, unless the author is a screenwriter. Some of the screens are just perfect; Just like The Artist, the filmmaker knows the boundaries of the genre is takes from and maximizes it. Always bringing up questions later to be answered, or unanswered. Knowing what it is and going to be, I have no faults against it. I had a blast watching it.

It also seems like it was a blast to make. It used a tight crew, shot in common places, yet retained the LA noir feel with overhead shots of the city, and car chases. This is the kind of film you create with your friends because you just love films.


Megatron:
Megatron was infinitely better than most short films because the acting was superb. Not some short idea shot in the same house with a DSLR. It was perfectly paced, it had a ponderous ending, great social realism.

A Separation:
A Separation is a film that has maintains social realism, takes place in Iran, yet has a universally themed story. Each character's traits are displayed. The editing and cinematography is straightforward, guiding the audience to see what the director and screen-writer wants to be seen, allowing the audience to be the judge. The plot is perfect, screen-written to the bone.

This is as good as a screenwriter's film can get, and although it is superb, I personally enjoy director's films more. Screenwriter's films are plot-heavy, guiding the audience to see each event. I want to observe characters for a longer period of time, their actions creating character. Less dialogue. Less frantic pace in scenes. More time to think, wander. The characters shouldn't merely have personalities or a point of view, the audience should be able to deeply understand them, without guidance.

"…I think the end of a movie should not be an end but a beginning for finding answers to the questions which have been raised in the course of the film…" - Farhadi

"For years, I worked in the theater, and I have a familiarity with plays that use a narrative structure of the Western sort. I don’t mean cowboys, I mean the classic narratives of the West — a ghost of that style. It’s the combination of naturalism and drama. In our storytelling, we don’t have this kind of structure very often. Ang Lee told me one reason it was a huge hit was that he used Western psychological storytelling and a style that came from China."

The Descendants:
The Descendants is a good standard family film. It could have been filmed anywhere and still performed the same. Hawaii is just a location. [After watching some more]. Well, it does show a lot of Hawaii, but just the natural beauty. Not the people that inhabit it. Not the culture. Just the contemporary beauty. It's also overly melodramatic. The only reason I'm falling for it is because I'm currently vulnerable, being sick and slow. It's solid though, like Little Miss Sunshine. A good end scene, social realism in every character. Perhaps I enjoy observing lower class people more? Perhaps there are too many films about upper class family problems.

"Payne is gifted at using the essence of an actor. He links something in their nature to their characters. Consider Robert Forster, handsome, tanned, angry in a complex way about his daughter's imminent death because she might not have been in the boat if Matt had been a better husband. Mr. Thorson has a moment of stunning truth with Sid (Nick Krause), the seemingly spaced-out boyfriend of Alexandra; Sid is also not as simple as he seems. Consider Matthew Lillard as the adulterer; not a bad man. Consider Beau Bridges, who is reluctant to be the bad guy, but not unwilling.

What happens is that we get vested in the lives of these characters. That's rare in a lot of movies. We come to understand how they think and care about what they decide. There are substantial moral problems underlying the plot."
  - Ebert

This is true.



The Artist:
The Artist is charming throughout, perfectly in control of it's own witty use of cliche. There is no error. It harks the charm of classic films it samples.

things i like:
display of narrative through the behavior of character with little or no dialog
thrill, over the shoulder camera following, climax
slow pace to allow time to contemplate

things i don't like:
narrow DOF for everything, centering only on characters faces or wherever the action is
