Duck Tape

The Ugly Duckling
In the far end of a colorful pond full of ducks, an ugly duckling (composed of silver tape) lives in a dull, black and white secluded area. As it watches in envy, a black eye appears, then the rest of it's body is colored using new color Duck Tape!

Since 1950
Depict that since the 1950's, families have been happily using Duck Tape to fix everything, and it fits (show in black and white). In the present, people still use the silver Duck Tape, but it doesn't fit in a colorful world. Cue the new Duck Tape!

Survival of the Fittest
Ducks (composed of silver tape) are being snatched by cheetahs, zebras, and other animals that have an associated Duck Tape print. Using the new Duck Tape, the ducks can now camouflage to avoid being eaten.

Fashion Trendsetter
A kid rips his jeans playing a sport. The mother uses a new colored or print Duck Tape to fix it. Everyone in the kid's team loves it, and starts ripping their own clothes on purpose, asking their mothers to use the new tape. End with a team picture.

stuck on duck:
script for The Ugly Duckling:
duck tape a duck figurine
film it floating in a pond, edit it in black and white
fade in color
slowly add more colored duck tape to it
a black eye
feathers
etc.
inspiring music


show colorful pond with ducks swimming along (joyful music, think Bambi)
then show the ugly duckling alone, in black and white, stuck in place, sighing an ugly quack (sad music, think dark factory music)
a black eye appears (stretching duck tape noise) on the duck, the duck is looking at the colorful ducks with envy, pan to the colorful ducks
now, pan back to the ugly duck
zoom in to the duck, add colorful body (duck tapes noises), feathers, etc.
zoom out
the world is now colored
the duck stops, is stuck, due to new strength?

logo on the duck and at the end

Script for Since 1950:
1950s black and white family fixing things with silver Duck Tape
2010's colorful family fixing things with silver Duck Tape looking disappointed by the the dull silver color
magically change the silver Duck Tape to new colors/printed Duck Tape making the family react positively

possible items that were taped in the 2010's family scene:
shirt - use printed duck tape
colored appliances - use matching colored Duck Tape
