Terribly written, but, eh.

The first chapter describes in wiki-fashion the borders of India. All have problems of demarcation, hostilities to neighbors (West and East Pakistan aka East Bengal aka Bangladesh), passing of insurgents from both sides, sheltering of insurgents (for training camps / bases), sheltering of refugees (from civil wars from neighboring nations), creation of refugees (from building no-human-zone on the border), accidental killings, passing of drugs and weapons, and so on. It doesn’t tell why the wars go on, what the motives are, or offer any cultural insights with the wars for lands. *One cool point was that when confronted with big-nation land-grabbers, some of the tribes of the north-eastern tribal lands went toward Assam to create a home-land.* Unfortunately, many of the tribes are converted / abused, killed, and used as mercenaries against whichever nation they don’t like. *Still, they are noble to die for their land, as the Nagas did, even if they are used as insurgents.* Otherwise, it was mostly non-sense centralized gov decisions, of building fences, policing them, to up-keep some imaginary boundary, dividing the original relationships of people that live near the borders.

The second chapter describes the waves of emigration from India to Britain’s colonies to toil on for-profit-farms (plantations), or, other labors and businesses. Punjabis, Gujaratis, and whoever else that happened to get the chance (Biharis, Bengalis, Tamils...), went to Eastern Africa (colonies in Kenya, Uganda, South Africa?), Sri Lanka, Maldives, Fiji, and some other places (Mauritius?). *Of personal note, Kenya’s gov allowed Indians to go back home peacefully, whereas Uganda’s gov forced them out, throwing them into a state of seeking asylum.* Then, as the British colonies collapsed through various ways of natural de-colonization (racism, *culture-ism*, a hatred for slavery, in-equality, etc.), some went back home to India, but, many took the opportunity to go to better places: Australia, Britain, Canada, and America. Punjabis, making good police, were sent to South-east Asian cities: Hong Kong, Singapore (Malaya), some other places, and even California. Tamils (from Tamil Nadu) went to Sri Lanka, making up a chunk of the total population of it; This was strange because prior to *colonization (the process of an empire developing places of capital production in other places, regardless of whose sovereign)*, this sort of mass immigration never happened in Sri Lanka, and, doing so led to civil war (?, not sure, all fault to Britain’s desire to produce?).