A Briefer History of Time

Karl Popper - falsification of scientific theories

Newton - Principa Mathmatica, Law of motion, three laws, m = Fa

Two parts. The initial state and the laws the govern nature after the initial state.

General theory of relativity describes gravity and large scale, miles to observable universe. Quantum mechanics describes small scale, millionth of a millionth of an inch. The two disagree with each other on some parts.

Quantum theory of gravity - unifies the two theories, single theory to describe the whole universe.

Knowing this, will be able to determine future actions.

1.9
Natural selection will lead people to increase intelligence, and increase knowledge about the world.

1.10
Galileo and Newton
Laws if motion:
Acceleration is same no matter the weight. Promotional to force.

1.11
Theory of gravity:
Gravitational attraction = proportional to mass of each body, and half the acceleration per unit mass.

Explains why orbits are elliptical.

1.12
What is rest? Cardboard box on train vs platform.

Ping pong on a train. Depend on observer.

Absolute time.

Length of time between events, depends on the observer. Linked to light.

1.13
11 years before principea Mathmatica, Romer:
Using difference of eclipse times of jupiter's moons, proved light moves at a finite speed, and had a pretty good approximation.

1865, James Maxwell:
Unified Electricity and Magnetism

Magnetic Field - creates a field with electricity and magnetism, has electromagnetic force

Could be wave-like disturbances, discovered same speed as light

Visible light waves
Short wavelengths - ultraviolet, x-Ray, gamma ray
Long wavelengths - radio, micro, infrared radiation

1.14?
Ether theory:
Tries to combine relativity and electromagnetic waves.

Waves of electromagnetic waves need some medium to travel through, relative to some ether, to have a constant speed to the observer.

1887 Albert Michaelson and Edward Morly
Difficult to measure speed compared to anything else known.

Knew earth orbits at a fast speed. Measured light as different times of day, using an angle toward the sun. Same speed.

1.15
Albert Einstein:
Fundamental Relative Theory*
Speed of light should measure the same for all observers, independent of the observer's speed and direction. No ether needed.

Train example re-examined. The ping-pong ball on then the train. Speed is distance over time. Theory ignores time. Each observer must have a clock with them, which may be different. Which is quite counter-intuitive.*

Space-time.

1.16
Can describe a point with three coordinates.

Must describe the point relatively. So to describe the point of a moon, one may have to use a line from the moon to the sun, and a line from the moon to some other star, and the orbits of the planets.

So how to describe points in space (something infinite)?

Can use patches of space, relatively.

Can be specified by four coordinates, 3 space, one time.

In relativity, there is no distinction between sets of coordinates.

E = mc^2







