Antifragile is the category of things that not only gain from chaos but need it in order to survive and flourish.

In Black Swan, Taleb showed that highly unpredictable and improbable events underlie almost everything about the world. In Antifragile, Taleb makes it desireable, even necessary, and proposs things be built in an antifragile manner.

"How to love the wind"

Some things benefit from shocks, they thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stressors and love adventure, risk, and uncertainty...Antifragile.

Antifragility is beyond resilience or robustness. The resilient resists shocks and stays the same; the Antifragile gets better. This property is behind everything...

We are. Largely better at doing than we are at thinking, thanks to antifragility. I'd rather be dumb and Antifragile than extremely smart and fragile any time.

Can build a systematic broad guide to no predictive decision making.

Antidote to black swan.

Thanks to fragilista, the fragile class of people, modern culture is increasingly building blindness to the mysterious, the Dionysian.

Things come in triplets: fragile, robust, Antifragile.

New York banking system, ?, Silicon Valley
Directed research, ?, stochastic tinkering
Apollonian, Dionysian, a balance of both
Rules, principle, virtue
Tourist / personal and intellectual, ?, Taxi driver / fuck you money / artisan / prostitute
Classroom, real life / pathemata / mathemata, real life and library
Post agricultural, ?, nomadic and hunter-gatherer tribes
Plato / Aristotle / Averroes, early Stoics / Menodotus / Nicomedia / Popper / Burke / Wittgenstein / John Gray, Roman stoics / Nietzsche / Perhaps Hegel (sublation) / Jaspers.
Academic / corporate executive / pope / politician, postal employee / truck driver, artist / writer
Positive science, negative science, art
E-reader, book, oral tradition
Industry, small business, artisan
Soccer mom, street life, barbell /
Parental library / street fights
Robert Moses / Le Corbusier, Jane Jacobs

Fat Tony debates Socrates:
Fat Tony:
"My dear Socrates... You know why they are putting you to death? It is because you make people feel stupid for blindly following habits, instincts, and traditions. You may be occasionally right. But you confuse them about things they've been doing fine without getting in trouble. You are destroying people's illusions about themselves. You are taking the joy of ignorance out of the things we don't understand. And you have no* answer; you have no* answer to offer them."

...

From a talk with Daniel Kahnman:
No word for something that gains from volatility, so created it.

Classify fragil, robust, and anti-fragile.

No insurance, insurance, and ten times insurance.

Why too big too fail is bad.

Seems to believe probability has a small role.

Gauge path based on outcomes.

Size brings fragility. Being hit by a large stone vs pebbles.

For decentralization, because pebbles are better than large stones. In American government, that's the market crashes and Iran.

Turkey problem from Black Swan:
Butcher wants turkey with increasing statistical confidence. On two days before thanksgiving a black swan comes. It's a black swan (a surprise event) for the turkey, but not the butcher. We don't want to be turkeys.

That's the whole point of the Black Swan (the book).

Daniel's argument:
The turkey has a good life, until the black swan. Me: a good life 99% of the time, or a pretty good life 99.9% of the time.

People want robustness and predictability.

Put too much stress on events.

It's ideal view for Talebs life, but not sure if ideal view for most people. Other people have a mechanism that makes people increasingly sensitive to small losses, in a way that may not be compensated by the extreme way Taleb suggests (Antifragile).

Prospect theory:
Rather win a million over time slowly, and rather lose it instantly.

Thinks Taleb prescibes a life of exposing oneself in order to hopefully achieve large gains.

