Introduction to Aristotle by Richard McKeon:
The reader is given the means and matter to form his own interpretation as a basis for speculating and for inquiring further into philosophic problems and into Aristotle's influence on their formulation and treatment.

Aristotle's lifetime:
20 years at Plato's Academy
2 years teaching Alexander the Great
12 years building an institution and empirical research

Exoteric and esoteric lectures.

Lyceum had no buildings, no property, no endowment. Aristotle was a metic, an alien resident.

Aristotle's esoteric work survived; Plato's exoteric work survived.

Every science has it's own subject-matter, it's own method, and it's own principles.

Aristotle's vocabulary:
Science = fields, faculties, truths, virtues
Art = inquiry
Theoretical science = metaphysics, physics, math
Practical science = ethics, political science

4. The Theoretic Sciences
Sequence from sensation to knowledge is a kind of awareness of things, not a sequence of things to constructs or inventions of mind...For human action, experience is not inferior to art, and men of experience succeed even better than those that have theory without experience, since experience is knowledge of individuals, art of universals; and actions and productions are concerned with the individual. The man of experience only knows the fact, however, while art and science supply and take into account the causes...the universal, which is first isolated in the recognition of the one in the many in experience, is this the basis of both the skill of the artist and the knowledge of the scientist. The sequence from sensation to thought is a transition, from things prior and better known to us to things prior and better known in nature. Our reason is like the eyes of bats in the blaze of day with respect to things best known in nature. We do not percieve first principles immediately, nor are they innate in our souls, but we proceed from the half-light of sensation to the principles of science, which, once grasped, are better known than the conclusions which flow from then or the experiences from which they derived.*

5. The Practical and Productive Sciences
We get to know principles through induction, abstraction, and analogy...universals in sense perception, also universals in judgement, understanding, practical wisdom (ethics).*

The end of theoretical science is knowledge, and do not depend on our action or volition. The end of practical science is to act in the light of knowledge: for example, it is not the purpose of political science to know the good, but to make men good.*

The artificial or made object causes inquiry.*

He sometimes sometimes differentiates the ends of human purposes and operations, contrasting the process of making, which use an external matter and produce an artificial object, to the process of doing, which use internal potentialities as matter to develop moral virtues, artistic skills, and prudential reasons, and separating the arts and their products from virtues and institutions and their actions.**

The fashion in which a man grows, reproduces, nourishes himself, moves, perceives, or thinks, may be studied as functions of his nature; but his virtues, the social and political institutions under which he lives, and the objects of art and technology which he produces, uses, and appreciates depends on the habits induced by actions he has performed, stances or from the example of other men, and on the ideas and ideals he has conceived.

The principles of action...are in the doer acting to change himself and others, and the principles of productions are in the producer changing materials to make things.

Although external principles of practical and productive sciences are contested, they are comparable...The cause of motion is a nature or power or faculty of an inorganic or organic mover. The cause of production is reason or an art in the producer. The cause of action is a will or desire in the doer. Power is therefore most important as a cause in motion than in art or in action. Reason is more important in producing art than in starting natural motions or in inducing moral actions; and the character of the agent is of crucial importance in the judgement of actions but irrelevant in physical science or artistic making.

...in ethics from the point of view of the individual but with recognition that the conduct of the individual is influenced and formed by the communities in which be grows up; in politics from the point of view of the associations and institutions of men but with recognition that the character and operation of communal institutions are determined by the tendencies and preferences of the men who compose them and exercise them in offices.

Arts imitate nature.

Aristotle argued that employment in the baunisic arts (mechanical, applied arts that depends on extensive physical exertion) was incompatible with the exercise of the functions of citizenship.

The theoretic sciences are distinct from the practical, and the productive by their end or purpose or principle. Yet, the theoretic sciences, the pursuit and transmission of knowledge and it's presentation and acceptance, are subjects treated by the practical and productive sciences: scientific knowledge is examined among the intellectual virtues in ethics, and the problems of promoting scientific research and of improving or limiting the teaching of science are political problems; devices of invention, discovery, and creation, forms of presentation and organization of the results of inquiry and persuasive means of securing acceptance are artistic or poetic problems.

The productive sciences, finally, are directed wholly to the artificial objects produced by art and they make their own materials, yet knowledge of potentialities and possibilities of materials, of the sensibilities and reactions of audiences, and of the organizations and proportions of forms, may come from the theoretic and the practical sciences; and the arts may in turn contribute to the construction of sciences, to the formation of virtues, and to the constitution of states.

Table of contents of Nicomachean Ethics:
1. It, like the arts, is acquired by repetition of the corresponding acts
2. ...
3. Pleasure in doing virtuous acts is a sign that the virtuous disposition has been acquired: a variety of considerations show the essential connection of moral virtue with pleasure and pain.

