David Harvey (2014) "Limits To Capital And The Right to The City”:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q3iziZLb724

He spent 10 years writing Limits to Capital. He read all three volumes of Capital, all three volumes of Theory of Surplus Value (???), and Grundisse.

In Baltimore, he was told to write a report on the housing situation. While doing so, he read the first page of Capital. Since he cold write in whatever way he felt, he found the terms of use-value and exchange-value useful. So, he proceeded to the next page, and so on.

Chapter 2, structure of a perfect market, a utopia. Throughout the book he assumes, knowing that it is impossible. By using this, he shows it’s flaws so by the end of the book it is clearly shown and argued that the rich get richer and poor poor.

Marx read all of the political philosophy he could, especially the classic liberals (Adam Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, etc.). While doing so, he deconstructed the books, and wrote his own theory,

In the 1970’s, the things were going slow, people were living instead of working, so some people felt they must change the economy. 1970’s neoliberal project, get the state out of the market — the part that redistributes wealth from the upper class to the lower classes. Raegan, Thatcher, latin governments — Pinochet, etc. “Let the free market rule” was the slogan.

Thus, Marx is perfect now, because we live in such a society, based on neoliberalism. Also, because other countries are developing, his writing of England in the 1850’s are no different from less developed countries, of factory conditions in England or Foxxcon, is not much different. It’s a part of development that occurs in all capitalistic societies.

Limits to Capital provides a theoretical apparatus to understand cities.***

Harvey feels that the social unrest, discontent, appears spontaneously, has a reason. How to generalize it, to say, we are all in this together? This is where books like Limits of Capital can help. Harvey’s sense in the simplest form is that capital is doing very well, but the people are doing very badly.
  - [hmmm, makes sense]
…
The US has the highest profit since the 1920’s, and simultaneously the highest income inequality. It should he reminded that the 1930’s followed.
  - [from wikipedia (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1920s): The economic prosperity experienced by many countries during the 1920s (especially the United States) was similar in nature to that experienced in the 1950s and 1990s. Each period of prosperity was the result of a paradigm shift in global affairs. These shifts in the 1920s, 1950s, and 1990s, occurred as the result of the conclusion of World War I and Spanish flu, World War II, and the Cold War, respectively.]
…
Harvey says, then we should form an anti-capitalist movement.
…
Neo liberalism is embedded in the culture. People accept that they are losing money, houses, and so on.

Human capital theory says that people should be able to get an education, wealth, etc. But the truth is that people must pay for education, and still possibly not get a job (he mentions taxi drivers with PH.Ds), while rich people can invest in hedge funds and relax. Capitalists always have that choice, to either work and/or invest. Laborers don’t.
  - I think Harvey assumes a lot here, he believes in institutions.

This idea that we as individuals are responsible for the fact that we are poor, and if we are poor, it is our fault. There’s a huge educational thing here. It is not the fault of the people, it is a systematic problem of capital. And the only way to rectify it, is to change the system. Which means one has to become anti-capitalist.

He just finds it useful to frame things with Capital.

Which society would you rather be in, one where education is a use-value or where education is an exchange-value? Which society would you rather be in, one that is based on use-values or one that is based on exchange values?

There have been periods where countries have went toward those values.
  - still are, in less developed countries! Guess I need an anthropologist or traveler who has more experience in less developed societies.

David Harvey was educated for free up to Doctorate degree, because he was born in Britain before the labor movements. Now, education, housing, and healthcare has been privatized. And the US is entire privatized and profit-oriented.

Let’s try to create a society with the delivery of use values, with the least amount of exchange values. The utopia is entirely use values, a left-wing utopia. So Harvey wants to use a utopian framework, based on these kinds of contradictions (spectrums like use-value vs exchange value) to define what our politics might be about.*

To understand Capital, one should think, what is the alternative.
  - [perhaps invoking some Kant, using an ideal to strive toward]

There are now organizations that view housing a human right, not a commodity. Same for healthcare and education.***** (MAIN TAKE AWAY IDEA HERE)

He’s publishing the book in Portogeause and having the conference in Brazil because he hopes that people can use the concepts from it to understand urbanization.

Most of the struggles of the past 15-20 years have been urban struggles. The focus has changed from what goes on in the factory to what goes in the city. That’s capitalism because it extracts a great deal of value from urbanization and urban life. He says he found the following obvious after writing companion vol 2, which doesn’t exist in Limits to Capital: Where capital creates the surplus is not the same as where capital realizes it [duh]. The surplus is created in factory in China, but it is realized in a Walmart selling junk. Or, inversely, it’s possible for Walmart to get the surplus, as opposed to the producer.

Wealth is extracted through housing, healthcare, technology (phone, internet), and education.

To be able to say, hey, it’s not your fault, it’s just how Capital works. And once people understand that, people would be in a much better position, politically, on a coherent path to an alternative.
———— (end of speaking)
Questions and Answers [questions happen to be in Portuguese and not audibly translated to English]:

Mentions Engel’s housing while in Baltimore, how Engels said the housing problem keeps moving, because some places become rich, some poor [predating Jane Jacobs by a long time!]. Harvey says the solution [which is effing simple], make housing socialized. The big question is how to make get housing out of the market, reverse the commodification, and make it common good.*
—

Someone must of mentioned participatory budgeting, which was first done in Brazil.

Harvey responds that Capital is a beast, meaning that it’s a deeper problem. Participatory budgeting accounts for 15% or less of the budget, and it may or may not be for the better, though it has been better for Brazil. The idea is to have a non-capitalist city, which has not been done. He feels that the Left takes micro-advances.

One of the difficulties of the Left is adapting that, the focus of the workplace is the city as a whole, not just the factory workers. Harvey’s definition of the proletariat is anyone who belongs to the urbanization of cities: taxi drivers, social workers, etc. He feels the idea of organizing an entire city is important; He mentions Gramsci as a person who recognizes this importance, because Gramsci said when one organizes a factory, it’s only a small segment of a proletariat. When on organizes a neighborhood, it’s a good selection of the whole of the proletariat.
—

I stopped listening to questions. Very slow talking and content.




Kind of veered off and watched some Chomsky videos.

Noam Chomsky on Postmodernism
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjQA0e0UYzI
Post-modernism is a bit radical in that it is away from real experience, real morals, a moral norm. He has same criticism of technology, that people send him one or two line messages, instead of taking the time to go to a library, check references, then writing to him.

