Guns, Germs, and Steel

2. Yali asks, why did white people have cargo
Yali問「為什麼白色的人有貨嗎？」

3. From 11,000BC (everyone is a hunter gatherer) to 1500AD (disparate civilizations, some in stone age, some near industrial), why did some continents advance faster than other continents? (Eurasia had bronze tools earlier).
  - less social support, less happy

4. > 1650AD, most people would answer (natural selection, darwinism, genetics, intelligence), the author argues that the only difference is technology, and in face modern stone age people are more intelligent than industrialized peoples.

Even cognitive abilities are affected by social influences, so it's difficult to test difference in intelligence.

The small population of Papa New Guinea has created a more rough environment for survival of the fittest / intelligent, whereas Europe chose disease-resistant genes. Papa New Guineans are more playful because they consume less passive entertainment, and therefore more intelligent.

5. Another answer: climate. The inhibitory effects of tropical climate (heat and humidity), and on human creativity and energy.

Perhaps colds climates requires one to be more technically inventive. The cold climate leaves much time for people to sit indoors and invent.

The author argues many technological advances took place in tropical climates (Mayans were the most advanced, New Mexico developed writing, etc.).

Bureaucracy started with irrigation systems near river valleys. The author argues it started before that.

6. Moral gap. America incorporate Black Africans, and now they form the underclass, and told it's attributed to social disadvantages and opportunities.

7. < 11,000 BC, (forgot) apes evolved to 5m? homo erectus in Africa, homo erectus migrated to 1.7m Java, homo sapiens in .5m Eurasia, 40,000 neanderthal, cro magnan 50,000 "great leap" with tools, jewelry, and art in Eurasia - language via better voice box? started in Africa then spread everywhere?, 

8. cro magnans in Eurasia killed or displaced neanderthals, how was Australia and New Guinea civilized as there were channels of water between 30,000-40,000? requires watercraft, not created until 13,000.

9. large animals became extinct soon after humans reached Australia, leaving not a single domesticated animal

10. neanderthals stuck to Northern Germany and Kiev and did not have technology for sewing to create clothing, modern-humans migrated to Siberia, 3/5 continents (missing Americas), crossed the bearing strait, 14-35,000 Americas were colinized

11. 11,000BC Clovis people (Native Americans) entered, American large animals become extinct, author argues Clovis hunters killed them, and that there are no pre-Clovis people (18-30,000).

12. Islands slowly become inhabited over time. Notably late: Madagascar 300-800AD, Iceland 800AD.

2.1 What would an archeologist guess at 11,000BC? Not sure. Any could win, except Australia and Papa New Ginea.

2.2 Author meets Levi, a native American farmhand, seemingly smarter than his White peers.

Farm production appears at separate times in the world depending on geographic differences.

More calories equals more people.``

Domestic mammals provide food, work (plowing), milk.

Farmer life is sedentary compared to hunter gatherers. Hunter gatherers also can only give birth once in a while, as it is difficult to manage.

2.3
Settled life allows one to store food, which leads to specialist jobs: kings and beauracrats (build chiefdoms and tax people), soldiers (full-time allowed British to kill Maori population), artisans (create technologies), scribes.

Other uses of crops and livestock: clothing, nets, rope, food, bone tools, leather, container (bottled gourd), land transportation.

2.4
馬幫助戰爭。Cortez, Pizarro. Ukraine. 古代戰車。Huns. Mongols.

動物的病菌。Native American, indigenous 澳洲，南部的非洲，太平洋的島。

說明為什麼看得書，鋼，帝國，創造第一次在歐洲。


2.5
出產食物不一樣的。

domesticated poppy 從西南亞洲到歐洲。

2.6


meh. 聽書不好玩。不可能想。