Conclusions:
Higher education departments are thriving communities, especially University of Chicago, and New York (including Columbia). Both schools have a great books background.

Foundations by Samuelson is a must read.
Milton Friedman lectures
University of Chicago as best environment for academic life
  - Community needed to feel a branch of knowledge could do everything.
Talcott Parson's Structure of Social Action
  - maybe


1. An obvious belief
2. Powerful people on his side

“You do not give up ideas and concepts you have held for a long time without a fight. It is necessary to fight to get new ideas accepted.”




From book cover inlet:
Theme of importance of real world events and a desire for relevance
  - main motivational drive




Meh, all economists. Though, economics is a large part of society.

Gary Becker:
Lucky to come into contact with people -- Giants in the field -- who had a great influence on me.

Grew up in Brooklyn

Interest in education although parents weren't.

Up to 16 not serious. Changed from handball to math team. Competitions. Against top New York schools. 

Senior year, felt wanted to contribute to society, socialist, yet strong interest in math.*
  - sounds like me with games and society, and tech and society, and creativity and society.

17 Princeton. 

String of lucky decisions, like choosing economics as an elective.
  - sounds like me tech elective

At said elective he was given Paul Samuelson's Economics: An Introductory Analysis. Math in the microeconomics section interested him.

Read in Princeton: The Theory of Competitive Price, Hick's Value and Capital.

Talcott Parson's Structure of Social Action.

Adlai Stevenson once defined a graduate student as someone who didn't know when the party was over. Well, I wanted to continue in this party atmosphere, so I went for a doctorate.

Chose Chicago over Harvard. Probably the most important decision he ever made.

Community needed to feel a branch of knowledge could do everything.

Had the Chicago chip on shoulder attitude that economics could unravel the mysteries of social problems.

Six years at Chicago. Three as graduate. Most exciting and important in his life.

1. An obvious belief
2. Powerful people on his side

You do not give up ideas and concepts you have held for a long time without a fight. It is necessary to fight to get new ideas accepted.

12 years in Columbia and National Bureau of Economic Research, both in NYC

Human Capital

Things dimmed in Columbia. Offered small by Harvard, but only interested in Chicago. Chicago offer renewed, and reciprocated with small one year visit.

Return to Chicago just as stimulating... It was a "magical place".

"During my year there, following a lot of soul searching (because I did like my setup in New York), I decided to stay in Chicago and accepted an offer there."

Became close friends with George Stigler.

Wrote article about marriage.

1981 published Treatise on the family. Won Nobel, for its controversy and meeting skepticism.

Throughout career write topics close to public policy, yet aloof in debates of it.

Business week called for column gig. Pop writing.
--





James Heckman:
Exposed to a lot of academics and life at Colatsdo College. Organizers of "Freedom School" learned about major economists, and was given a copy of Samuelsons's Foundations of Economic Analysis. The book had a major impact.

Liked the theorem-proof format, saw the social science counterpart to hard science, he had frost experienced in Oppenheimer's class.

Lewis's Theory of Economic Growth appealed to his liberal arts training.

Junior readings led to Economics.

Graduated as math major because he took so many math courses.

Interested in Princeton, but also Chicago, and swayed by many including admiration for Milton to Chicago.

Not much for economic development in Chicago and referred to Princeton. Fit him more as it was bucolic, as opposed to large classes in Chicago, and that crazy city, and even felt it was impersonal, and cult of Friedman.

Drifted between subjects when bored.

Read every paper by people he liked.*

Papers establish new fields
--









An academic article can open a new field of research.
But isn't everything worth researching? Knowledge can be gained from anything. Why limit to these articles? Are these people this boring? Misses the entire point of communities, artists, and humans.

Found Marxist economists interesting.

Main NBER group went to Palo Alto. He was offered Chicago, supported by Becker and Nerlove. Felt it was a bigger stage, not ready before, but now was eager.

Workshop system, as many as three per day. People came having read the speaker's (not just the moderator's) paper, then had intense discussions. Required someone who could understand the speaker's framework.

System of learning: two workshops per day, with pre and post workshop lunch and dinners. Another form of learning was reading scores of phd theses.***

If the paper survived Chicago, it would do well elsewhere.

He found it competitive, impersonal, as opposed the country club-like environment of others.

The vitality of the enterprise invigorated me. Ideas were abundant, and new discoveries were being made everyday. I could test out ideas on colleagues all of the time. And this made research rewarding and easy to do. Exchange benefited anyone.

I locked myself in an apartment for two weeks and tried to make sense of the book. The effort was worth it.

...(skipped a bit, boring)

Chicago renews itself, first-rate people attract first-rate people.

...(skipped more, though maybe worth reading, just tired)

Anchoring my own research in serious empirical analysis has protected me from the fads that plague the profession and has given me autonomy and independence I have always craved...this is my way of developing reputation and avoiding appeals to authority in any form.



From the beginning of Heckman.

The practice of economics is a social activity greatly affected by the environment in which one works. Feedback, stimulation, and encouragement are central to this activity.

Lived near the University of Chicago, and father took night school training there. :)

Frank Oppenheimer as first great mind met. (Maybe not much media revolving at the time).

Gratified theory worked in practice. Confirmation of theory, and any physical law should conform to and predict reality.

The profound simplicity of the real world and the ability of mathematics to predict it overwhelmed me.

Moved through the south with family, directly encountered racism. Jim Crow system. Followed civil rights. Great time of social change.

When I was not doing science I was reading history, philosophy, and politics.

Read every article of life and debated with it with teachers and students.
--

Robert Lucas, Jr.

Roosevelt High School
University of Chicago on scholarship

Got an A in humanities.

Glorious Hutchins 14 year long general education course.

It was partially abandoned with more conventional courses. But it was Hutchin's "Great Books" courses that were the real excitement, except to a few science majors.*****

The construction of theoretical models is our way to bring order to the way we think about the world, but the process involves ignoring some evidence, setting them aside, as he did with "cross over" of his Mendel experiment. He fails to see the data, and prefers a clean model.

Not interested in sciences. Interested in social sciences and politics, especially Social Sciences iii and Western Civilization.

Got a scholarship for Berkeley but did not fit in the department, and missed Chicago, the city and school.

By summer wife was pregnant, lost scholarship, and spent most of the year making up for the fact he didn't have economics as an undergraduate. And found a field he loved and was good at.

He found out Samuelson's book was most important from another important book. He spent the summer studying it. Each day he read and write all that he learned, like by line.

Describes the book as bold, teaching basics, and patronizing other economists.

He like many others internalized the book's view, that if I can't formulate a problem in economic theory mathematically, I didn't know what I was doing. Came to the position that mathmatical analysis is the only way of doing economic theory.



