Theses On Feuerbach
https://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1845/theses/theses.htm

II.
The question whether objective truth can be attributed to human thinking is not a question of theory but is a practical question. Man must prove the truth — i.e. the reality and power, the this-sidedness of his thinking in practice. The dispute over the reality or non-reality of thinking that is isolated from practice is a purely scholastic question.
  - power! authority! fuck non-real shit.

III.
The materialist doctrine concerning the changing of circumstances and upbringing forgets that circumstances are changed by men and that it is essential to educate the educator himself. This doctrine must, therefore, divide society into two parts, one of which is superior to society.
  - must teach those in power! Divided because one knows something the other does not.

The coincidence of the changing of circumstances and of human activity or self-changing can be conceived and rationally understood only as **revolutionary practice**.
  - change others or change self

V
Feuerbach, not satisfied with abstract thinking, wants contemplation; but he does not conceive sensuousness as practical, human-sensuous activity.

VI
Feuerbach resolves the religious essence into the human essence. But the human essence is no abstraction inherent in each single individual.
  - universal human essence*

In its reality it is the ensemble of the social relations.
  - entirely constructed by social reality

...

VII
Feuerbach, consequently, does not see that the “religious sentiment” is itself a social product, and that the abstract individual whom he analyses belongs to a particular form of society.
  - *

VIII
All social life is essentially practical. All mysteries which lead theory to mysticism find their rational solution in human practice and in the comprehension of this practice.
  - *

IX
The highest point reached by contemplative materialism, that is, materialism which does not comprehend sensuousness as practical activity, is contemplation of single individuals and of civil society.
  - not sure what is meant by civil society...

X
The standpoint of the old materialism is civil society; the standpoint of the new is human society, or social humanity.

XI
The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.
  - oh snap.