Book 1. S1-5

Every state is a community of some kind. Every community is established with a view to some good. For mankind, always act to obtain that which they think good.*, but if every community acts to some good, then the state, which is the highest of all, aims to a greater degree of any other, and at the highest good.

Difference between king and statesmen. King is personal, statesmen is not.

Master and slave is natural, genetic.

Woman only useful for a single use?

Barbarians have no distinction between master and slaves because there is no natural ruler.

First house and wife, and an ox.

Colony (house) create a village.

Eldest man rules the house. If in royal family, the settlement.

Villages create a state.

A state tries to achieve a good life.

A nature of a thing is it's end. When a thing is fully developed is nature. [things must have a single direction].

To be self-sufficing is the end and the best.

The creation of a state is nature, an man, by nature is a political animal.

Man without state is either a bad man or above humanity, maybe compared to isolated peace at draughts. Can be self-sufficient.

Man is more political animals than other animals.

Man is the only animal nature endowed with speech. (Knew speech was important).

Other animals only react to pleasure and pain.

Only man knows the concept of justice.

The state is prior to the individual because the whole is a necessity prior to the part.** If there was no body there would be no foot or hand.

7min in









5.
Is all slavery a violation of nature, or is some intended?

He says yes, by reason and fact.

Ruling is better when the subjects are better.

When one man rules and another man is ruled, they may be said to work.

For all things that form a composite (including other animals), and which are made up of parts, continuous or discrete (universe, earth, or or a part of it), the subject comes to light...Even with things with no light (?).

In living things, body and soul, and one is by nature ruler. In corrupted nature, the body will rule over the soul.

Male superior to female. Humans inferior to animals.

One with rational is, animals, like slaves, obeying instinct.




 




Questions:
"In Nature the state precedes the household and individual."
 
 