Overall:

Psychology:
Believes psychology is the root of most [human] problems, and the key to a good life.

Motives that appeal to most men --
vanity, acquisitiveness, rivalry, and the love of power -- are the cause of most problems.

Basically describes the inability of self-control as being primitive, savage.

"Escape from boredom is one of the really powerful desires."

Main logic sequence: boredom, escape boredom, impulse, passion.

Religion:
Grew up modern, same views on religion when 15.

Never opposed those whom mythology is a cultural characteristic, he did, however, attack those who adopted various psychological and physical means of persecuting their opponents in propagating their myths.

The history d organized religion in the West affords a number of instances in which religion has opposed humanitarian and scientific progress.

Later reaffirmed in 'Why I am not a Christian', All religions are both harmful and untrue. Religion, if not to be harmful must be free of dangerous elemnts -- suspicion, fear, and hate -- which lead step by step to escalate organized persecution.

Education:
Scientific inquiry over transmission of a set body of knowledge.

For five years, taught at an experimental school.

Students value final answers.

Develop scientific attitudes and forming of sound judgement. Unfortunately, most students really value final answers.

Inflexible doctrine are largely responsible for planting seeds of fear and intolerance, which often blossom to full-scale perfection crusades.

It is only in the spirit f free inquiry can learning take place. In this kind if atmosphere students are not compelled to believe in tenets, but only on evidence which is objective.

The substitution of evidence for dogma, as a basis for belief, is one of the great achievements science had conferred upon mankind.

In the teaching of history, there should be no undue emphasis on one's own country.* The history of wars should be a small part of what is taught.*

To modern educated people, science over ancient authorities is obvious.

Many forms of persuasion are a kind of force.

By the time out children are old enough to examine the evidence, our propagation has closed their minds.

Children learn Shakespeare by heart, with the result that ever after they associate him with pedantic boredom.

When the journey from means to end is not too long, the means themselves are enjoyed if the end is ardently desired...but if instead the immediate reward you promised him an old-age pension at seventy, his energy would very quickly flag.

"I think that the first thing that led me toward philosophy (though at the time the word 'philosophy was still unknown to me) occurred at the age of eleven. My childhood was mainly solitary as my only brother was  seven years older than me."

He's pro concise and lucid writing, and himself writes in a style with those characteristics.

Politics:

Ethics:

Uncategorized:
Punctuality is a quality the need of which is bound up with social cooperation... And yet in the ordinary business of life punctuality is absolutely necessary.