intro:
Ryokan lived as a recluse for most of his life, and left some fourteen hundred waka (Japanese poems), 400 kanshi (Chinese poems), and a smaller number of hokku.

bio:
His hometown is on a tiny strip of land between the sea [of Japan] and mountain. The sea-side is “surf-tormented”. Behind that mountain a railway exists, not far by whatever transport. The population of the town is 2600 and the nearby rival twin fishing / trading town is 1800.
  - Perhaps the small towns on the east coast of Taiwan have similar populations.

…born in Izumozaki in 1758…

Father was mediocre headman of the town. He was also the best distant Basho disciple of the area.
  - Perhaps, desire to be social, administrative, but failed due to nature / personality: being too smart, calm.

Mother had a good attachment with him, as proved by a poem written after her death:
day in and day out,
as my sweet mother’s keepsake,
I love to behold
the sea-bound isle of Sado,
at daybreak and at twilight.

As a boy…deep-rooted silence, his inability to cope with affairs of the world, his habit of reading books as if addicted to them, and of his nickname given him—“a candle in the sun”.

…he looked back to his boyhood years with nostalgia:
Should anyone inquire of me now what I think about myself, I would answer, I am just as I was in youth, Eizo by name.

Education by a Edo-trained Confucian scholar who taught the Chinese classics…He was studios…keen interest in literature. Studied at Shiyo’s school…long enough to qualify as local administrator, and also to make lifelong friends.

He was the oldest, with three bothers and three sisters…they were all interested in religion and literature. From a letter to his sibling, it seems his relationships were very simple, absent-minded, happy.

Ryokan was trained by his parents to become an administrator, but, contrary to general expectation, he denounced the world while he was still in his youth…at either age 18 or 22

“Many a man becomes a monk and then practices Zen, but I had practiced Zen for a long time before I became a monk.”

Was studying Zen in the other twin town in 1779, then another abbot came to give a lecture, and Ryokan followed him to his temple in Tamashima, and stayed there until the abbot died in 1791 (age 21-33!).

In another poem, he speaks of poverty he had to endure:
Since I began to seek discipline at the temple, Entsuuji,
**many winters and springs have I known in abject poverty.
All this is because I read a chronicle of old saints
that poverty was once prized by Soka more than anything.**

… 