taken from knowledge and education.txt, about sublimation, reason to live, will, power, passion, madness.

Nietzche:
Will to power:
There is will to power where there is life and even the strongest living things will risk their lives for more power. This suggests that the will to power is stronger than the will to survive.

Zapffe:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zapffe:
Zapffe's theory is that humans are born with an overdeveloped skill (understanding, self-knowledge) which does not fit into nature's design. The human craving for justification on matters such as life and death cannot be satisfied—an idea closely related to that popularly established by Albert Camus and absurdist philosophy—hence humanity has a need that nature cannot satisfy. The tragedy, following this theory, is that humans spend all their time trying not to be human. The human being, therefore, is a paradox.

In The Last Messiah Zapffe described four principal defense mechanisms that humankind uses to avoid facing this paradox:

Isolation is "a fully arbitrary dismissal from consciousness of all disturbing and destructive thought and feeling".[2]
Anchoring is the "fixation of points within, or construction of walls around, the liquid fray of consciousness".[2] The anchoring mechanism provides individuals a value or an ideal that allows them to focus their attentions in a consistent manner. Zapffe also applied the anchoring principle to society, and stated "God, the Church, the State, morality, fate, the laws of life, the people, the future"[2] are all examples of collective primary anchoring firmaments.
Distraction is when "one limits attention to the critical bounds by constantly enthralling it with impressions".[2] Distraction focuses all of one's energy on a task or idea to prevent the mind from turning in on itself.
Sublimation is the refocusing of energy away from negative outlets, toward positive ones. The individuals distance themselves and look at their existence from an aesthetic point of view (e.g., writers, poets, painters). Zapffe himself pointed out that his produced works were the product of sublimation.
Zapffe was a prolific mountaineer and took a very early interest in environmentalism. This form of nature conservationism sprung from the intent, not of protecting nature, but to avoid human culturalization of nature. He is the author of many humorous short stories about climbing and other adventures in nature.

Schopenhauer:
puts a central emphasis on will and in particular has a concept of the "will to live."

Noam Chomsky:
purpose of education video:
to inquire and create, help people determine who to learn on their own

...

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baruch_Spinoza
  - Ethics: His concept of "conatus" states that human beings' natural inclination is to strive toward preserving an essential being and an assertion that virtue/human power is defined by success in this preservation of being by the guidance of reason as one's central ethical doctrine.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passion_(emotion)
  - more for love or hobby

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passions_(philosophy)
  - Spinoza: A passion, in his view, happened when external events affect us partially such that we have confused ideas about these events and their causes.
    - full excerpt: The seventeenth century Dutch philosopher Spinoza contrasted "action" with "passion," as well as the state of being "active" with the state of being "passive." A passion, in his view, happened when external events affect us partially such that we have confused ideas about these events and their causes. A "passive" state is when we experience an emotion which Spinoza regarded as a "passivity of the soul."[3] The body's power is increased or diminished. Emotions are bodily changes plus ideas about these changes which can help or hurt a human.[3] It happens when the bodily changes we experience are caused primarily by external forces or by a mix of external and internal forces. Spinoza argued that it was much better for the individual himself to be the only adequate cause of bodily changes, and to act based on an adequate understanding of causes-and-effects with ideas of these changes logically related to each other and to reality. When this happened the person is "active," and Spinoza described the ideas as adequate. But most of the time, this does not happen, and Spinoza, along with Freud, saw emotions as more powerful than reason. Spinoza tried to live the life of reason which he advocated.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sublimation_(psychology)
  - where socially unacceptable impulses or idealizations are consciously transformed into socially acceptable actions or behavior, possibly resulting in a long-term conversion of the initial impulse

...

Nietzsche , the great philosopher, claims that "There is always some madness in love, but there is also always some reason in madness." And Aristotle,  another great philosopher, said that "No excellent soul is exempt from a mixture of madness".