Surfaces and Essences:

Thesis: Analogies are the root of all concepts, and concepts are selectively evoked by analogies.

0:
0.1. Zeugmas, I'll meet you in five minutes and the garden
0.2. Other languages, the boy, dog, and girl were eating bread
0.3. Categorization. not black and white, gray.
0.4. Two misleading caricatures: 1. west is to east as left is to right. 2. discovery and genius, through far flung analogies, inter-disciplinary
0.5. Analogy-making and categorization:
Memory retrieval, using it to make sense of something complex.
Two people understand each other because they have constructed similar analogies before*
Using such basic analogies is automatic. Gravity is usually not thought of, but Einstein thought about it, to formulate the general theory of relativity.
0.6. Categorization and Analogy-making as the Roots of Thinking:
Analogy-making and categorization are mental acts, from mundane to sophisticated, that interpret all kinda of situations: judge quality, make decisions, learn new things.
"We think only thanks to analogies that link our present to the past"
0.7 The Rapid Inferences that Categories Provide: inference. Infer characteristics of a category, such as the category cat purrs. "in order to perceive the world around is, we depend just as much on categorization through analogy as we do on out eyes and our ears"
0.8 Are analogies seductive and dangerous sirens?: "all situations are new". "How could one do anything in life if one felt that it was crucial to be constantly on the alert in order to mercilessly squelch any resemblance that came to mind at any level of abstraction or concreteness? And worse yet, once we squelch then all, what would we then do? On what bias would we even make the tiniest decision?"
0.9. Analogy operating at all levels:
A down-to-earth conversation is exemplified, recalling past similar situations, or, analogies.
0.10. Abstract or Concrete:
Metaphors are exemplified to describe concrete situations.

1. Categories from single words.
2. Phrases / situations
3. Similar situations encountered in life," like this", "me too"
4. Human ability to shift rings of ladder of abstraction, routine and creativity*
5. Role of analogy and how it affects interpretation of situations, ex. A time where a current situation is similar to one in the past, but not the same, wrongly associated
6. Analogies we manipulate, to explain something, ex. Using history to explain something current
7. Naive analogies in education, knowing division as sharing, but missing the portion where the result is larger
8. Shows how great discoveries from scientists are built from a series of snowballing analogies in math and physics