http://www.nomadicmatt.com/travel-blogs/volunteer-abroad/
  - Two core themes I analyze in my book center on how too many volunteer projects can actually foster dependency on international aid and compromise the dignity of the people they are trying to help.
  - I’ve taken recommendations from travelers on the road, and now I most often volunteer independently with small organizations I find organically as I travel

Grassroots Volunteering: A small, growing resource of free and low-cost organizations and social enterprises all over the world. This site is my personal passion project that I launched in 2011.
Go Overseas: This site collates volunteering placements from many companies and returns a lot of variety in the search results.
Idealist.org: A large database that occasionally returns some fantastic, small, niche organizations.
Pro World Volunteers: A wonderful middleman placement company with community-driven projects that offers internships, volunteering, and study abroad programs.
Volunteer HQ: Very fair placement fees even with the refundable registration fee taken into account, and they seem to choose projects with a long-term community approach.
WWOOF: Working on organic farms is a wonderful way to give time to farm, agriculture, and sometimes conservation projects. Matt has previously provided a full guide on how to WWOOF on your travels.
KindMankind
cie.uci.edu
unv (united nations volunteer) - skill-based

peace corps
americorps
unicef

main questions:
Where is the money going?
How is the organization working with the community?
What is expected of volunteers?


TED: Hans Rosling:
Since 1926, large families and short lifespans have decreased worldwide. Only Africa remains. This is due to social changes (telling mothers to have less babies), coming before economic changes.

Meh other stuff is obvious. Income inequality exists from individuals, not just countries or continents.



http://www.telegraph.co.uk/expat/expatlife/9055213/Orphanage-tourism-help-or-hindrance.html:
MIGHT THE CHILDREN BE BETTER OFF?
When poverty is this severe, the question is often asked – might the children be better off living in institutional care rather than with parents who are unable to financially support them?
International studies have shown that children are better off in a family or community setting than in an institution. Many countries worldwide have moved to de-institutionalise childcare in favour of foster care programmes and community- based support. Orphanages, says UNICEF says, should be the last resort.
…
Research recently conducted by IOFA found that young adults who left orphanages experienced a variety of problems, including damaged or severed family connections, homelessness, exploitation, trafficking and drug abuse. Its findings, IOFA says, challenge the widespread belief that institutional care is better for children from poor families.
…
Tessa says it is naïve to believe that removing a child from the family unit will solve the underlying problems. “It is short-term thinking and definitively not in the best interests of the child and family.”
  - family is better than institutions

“While at the orphanage most volunteers seek to build emotional bonds with the children so they can feel they made a difference. Though well intended, this leads to a never-ending round of abandonment,” says Saundra.
  - short-term volunteers leads to abandonment

When I arrived in Asia ten years ago, I vowed never to work with a target group directly. I didn’t want to take a job away from a local, I don’t know the local culture and language, and my work is temporary. Instead, I offer my knowledge and skills to other social workers, which affects not just one child, but a much larger group of children in the end.”
  - working with the social workers, instead of directly to students may be better

I have never taken photos of children on holidays in London, so I am definitely confused by people doing this in Cambodia,” says Majella.
  - no reason to take photos and post them on Facebook


books:
Development as Freedom

The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries Are Failing and What Can Be Done About It
  - bottom 8 countries can’t get out of problem themselves, while the rest of the world steadily grows

others found on Goodreads:
An Imperfect Offering: Humanitarian Action in the Twenty-first Century

