The Politics Book
By DK Publishing

Intro:
If everyone could have everything they wanted whenever they wanted, there would be no such thing as politics.

It is clear that human experience never provided us with everything we want.

Political life.

Politics is not merely about the struggle to meet material needs in conditions of scarcity. - Aristotle

Man is a political animal. - Aristotle. Not just that man is better off in a complex society, than abandoned and isolated, but it is something human about having views on how matters of public concern should be decided.*
  - always feel public concern. Can never completely isolate self. And when isolated, still think of others.

Politics is a noble activity in which man decide the rules they will live by and the goals they will collectively pursue.

"Political society exists for the sake of noble actions, and not mere companionship."

Unique and collective activity that is directed at certain common goals and ends.
--

Political Moralism:
Goals that politics should achieve.

Ethics aka moral philosophy.

Political values: justice, equality, liberty, happiness, fraternity, national self-determination.

Utopia. (The Republic, Utopia by Thomas More, Utopia by Roberrt Nozick)

[seems all too optimistic, just ideas, does not fit the reality of human decision making]
--

Political Realism:
Rejects moralism, not about achieving happiness or freedom.

It's about Power. [yes!]

Without the ability to acquire and exercise power, values are useless.

Machiavelli and Hobbes.

Hobbes, through a "social contract" with his subjects, a sovereign exercises absolute power to save society from a brutish state.
--

Wise Counsel:
Moralism and Realism are grand, including many assumptions of human condition.

Concerned merely with delivering the best possible outcomes. Pragmatic.

War may keep repeating, and arguments, but through constitutional design and policy making, or ensuring officials are able as possible.

Confucius
  - hmmm, neat
--

Rise of Ideology:
Ideas are peculiar to different historical periods. Ideas of each political epoch differ because the institutions and practices of the societies differ, and the significance of ideas change across history.

Marx, Hegel.

Plate and Aristotle thought democracy as a dangerous and corrupt system, whereas most people in the modern world see it as the best form of governement.*
  - they were right.

Similarly, views on slavery changed.

[so ideas that politics, and therefore the way societies are governed, change over time]

What causes some ideas to become imporstnst and others to fall? Marx argues ideas are attached to the interests of social classes, such as workers or capitalists. The class interests give rise to the isms of ideological politics, from communism to socialism and conservatism and fascism. More recently, liberalism, conservatism, socialism, nationalism.

"The philosopher interpreted the world...the point is to change it" Marx.

Critics argue that means individuals caught up in those processed are playing an essentially passive role [yep], and that rational deliberation and argument have limited value. Ideological struggle is like a competition between sports teams. Passion as opposed to reason is ultimately what counts.

Many worry that ideological politics results in the worst excesses of realism, in which the ends are seen to justify brutal and unjust means. It appears to be a perpetual war.

Marx's solution was revolution of the working class and technological overcoming scarcity. This turned out to be over optimistic, with one tyranny changing to another. In this view, it seems like another form of utopia.
--

A disputed future:
Hegel

Political ideas are an abstraction from political life of society, state, culture, or political movement. To make sense of it all, must examine history and development. [yep]

A warning of being optimistic and developing ideas.

Imperialism and nationalism. (Yugoslavia, Quebec, Kashmir, Kurdistan, Catalonia struggle for sovereignty. European Union aspires political integration.)
  - first people need space, then they want unity. Like a small space in a city, countries want to be a small part of something large.

Making sense of the present requires an understanding of the variety of political ideas and theories conceived throughout history. These histories serve as the possibilities of the present, as well as a warning against overconfidence in our own political values, and they remind us that the demands of organizing and governing the collective life of society change in ways we cannot fully predict.

As new possibilities for the exercise of power arise, so will new demands for its control and accountability, and with these will come new politicos ideas and theories.

Politics concerns all of us, so we should all be involved in that debate.

Politics is too serious a matter to be left to the politicians. - Charles de Gualle
--


Ancient:

China:
Spring and Autumn / Confucianism, war, authoritarian control, revert to Confucianism

India:
Secure economy and material needs for society, unified for 100 years.

Greek:
Monarch - democracy (golden age) - imperialism / Roman - too large / decolonization - Monarchy for 500 years

(Many of these philosophers are childish, except Aristotle)

Aristotle:

main flow chart:
People come together to form households, households to form villages, and villages to form cities.

The purpose of our lives is to lead a "good life".

We have developed ways of organizing city-states in order to live a "good life".

Living in a society organized by reason, such as a city-state, is what makes us human.

Anybody who lives outside a city-state is either beast or God.

Man by nature is a political animal.
--

Unlike his mentor Plato, Aristotle believed that knowledge was acquired through observation rather than intellectual reasoning, and that the science of politics should be based on empirical data, organized the same way as the taxonomy of the natural world.

Natural tendency to form social units*. [yea!] Just as some animals. Tendency to live in a polis, not politically active in a modern sense. [Yes!]

Used history as opposed to ideals as Plato did, to classify governments.
--



-- (end of Aristotle
-- (end of ancient)

skippwd some chapters...

Revolutionary thoughts***
This time is most interesting because I did not understand it it prior to Sunflower Movement.

In Common Sense Thomas Paine demands freedom from British Rule for the American Colonies
  - number one best seller
  - People either blindly agreed or actually felt in solidarity with it

Edmund Burke denounces violence of the revolution in the Reflections on the Revolution of France.

George Hegel's Elements of Philosophy argues that freedom derives from complex social arrangement. Hmmm.

Rousseau** - for peaceful society before laws

Burke:
Burke believed that society's stability was underpinned by inherited property. Only such rich landowners had the power, self-interest, and inherited political skill, Burke asserted, to prevent monarchy over-reaching itself. In any case, he argued, the redistribution from the few to the many (Marx's communism?) could only ever result in "inconceivably small gains". This received a lot of criticism, for defending a minority and keeping a majority in servitude, among other things.

Johann Gottfried Herder:
Main flow chart:
People are shaped by the places they grow up.

Because shared languages and landscapes help to create a national spirit, or Volksgeist.

This national spirit forged a community with a particular national character.

People depend on this national community for happiness.

Each nationalist contains it's center of happiness within itself.
--

Whoa, never heard of this! Very interesting.

Argued that language is crucial in forming a sense of self, and ao the natural grouping for humanity is the nation - not necessarily the state, but the cultural nation with its shared language, customs and folk-memory.

Hmmm, should read more.
-- (end of Herder)

Hegel:
The slave feels self-existence to be something external.

Hmmm...worth reading.

Simon bolivar:
A state too extensive in interlude ultimately falls into decay.

Yep.

Augustus Comte:
Social science, family before society.


The Rise of the Masses chapter:
J S Mill: that so few dare to be eccentric marks the chief danger of the time.

Proudhon: property is theft...while the liberty of the rich and poor can co-exist, the property of the wealthy sits alongside the poverty of the many..."The downfall and death of societies are due to the power of accumulation possessed by property." See Robert Nozick and de Soto for more on this.

Thoreau:
That government is best which governs not at all. / Civil Disobedience

Marx: private property is thus the product... Of alienate labor.

Alienation of labor.*****

Nietzsche: will to power [yes!]. Endless striving of goals to motivate human behavior.

Kropotkin:
"in place of the cowardly phrase, 'obey the law', our cry, is 'revolt against all laws!'

It is necessary to dare in order to succeed.

Anarchy.

Weber: has a good thought on social structures. Next: Talcott Parson's, Anthony Giddens.

Clash of ideologies.
Trotsky seems intersting.

Gramsci: the state must be conceived as an "educator"

"A human mass does not 'distinguish itself, does not become independent... Without organizing itself: and there is no organization without intellectuals.



Post war chapter:
Arendt:
Every known and established fact can be denied. [anout the distortion of history to favor something else]

Arne ness: deep ecology. Lived in a cabin, likes to climb. :)

Foccault*: power in social institutions

Chomsky: everybody has to make sure that the rich folk are happy. Hah.

Nozick:* Minimal state. hmmm.

