Wittgenstein:

Not sure about source, wiki, Bertend Russell, or lecture series?
Kant wanted philosophers to study thought rather than reality, Wittgenstein wanted them to study language, because language and its use is what philosophy can understand.

Wittgenstein’s helped us out of our Cartesian, Lockian mindset and to overcome the question or the temptation to ask, ‘Which pieces of our language lock onto reality, and which do not?’ This is a pragmatic view of his achievement, he did not show metaphysics to be nonsense, he showed it to be a waste of time. It is not interesting to spend your time worrying about whether language hooks on to reality, it’s more interesting and productive to study what we do with language. Because what we do with language is what makes meaning. There is no foundation for it, there are no tools for it. We can engage in those practices with enthusiasm, with rigour  with passion, with thoughtfulness because the practices help us to cope with reality to cope with our opportunity. If we don’t have to play

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ludwig_Wittgenstein:
He wrote in 1931: "My bad spelling in youth, up to the age of about 18 or 19, is connected with the whole of the rest of my character (my weakness in study)."

Karl Wittgenstein died on 20 January 1913, and after receiving his inheritance Wittgenstein became one of the wealthiest men in Europe.[85] He donated some of his money, at first anonymously, to Austrian artists and writers, including Rainer Maria Rilke and Georg Trakl. Wittgenstein came to feel that he could not get to the heart of his most fundamental questions while surrounded by other academics, and so in 1913 he retreated to the village of Skjolden in Norway, where he rented the second floor of a house for the winter. He later saw this as one of the most productive periods of his life, writing Logik (Notes on Logic), the predecessor of much of the Tractatus.[70] While in Norway, Wittgenstein learned Norwegian to converse with the local villagers, and Danish to read the works of the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard.[86]