dream motorcycles:
1. Honda Cub or 三陽 金旺
2. 三陽 野狼
  - Taiwan post office version
3. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honda_CT_series
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honda_CT110


—
# Underbone Motorcycles
underbone wiki
Honda Cub wiki
[todo: get links from notes from somewhere else]

--
[super old:]
Safety requires you to sit on the bike. How is the arm reach? Can you hold the brake all the time and comfortably? How is your access to the clutch...it should be reachable without moving your arms. As for the leg room, you should be able to use your feet to maneuver into parking spaces. This is an issue for shorter legs. If you have longer legs you need to make sure you can grip the tank of the bike while your feet are on the pegs. Motorcycle experts say your foot needs to be able to access the rear brake and lock it. You also need to be able to up and down shift instantly with your toe. If the cycle has a fairing, make sure you can see without any distortion, either through it or over it. All bikes are intended to be adjusted to fit in a limited manner...if anything major is required, look for another bike. There is one out there just for you.
125-250cc
30 year old Honda 90

And, no matter what motorcycle a new rider buys first, within a year or two he or she will want to try something different. Most riders own several motorcycles before they find the bike they like best.

250cc
A 250 is a versatile machine, fairly powerful, moderate in weight, acceptably fast. If necessary, it can cruise on the freeway at 65 mph for reasonable periods of time. A 250 is not a touring bike, although I once rode one from Eugene, Oregon to Los Angeles, California (a round trip of nearly 2,000 miles). A person can get into a lot of trouble on a 250, but for the beginning rider of average size, strength, and confidence it can be an excellent trainer. A 250 is just about the ideal size commuter bike for any rider, regardless of experience, fast enough to stay out of trouble, and easy to handle and park. 

Kawasaki Ninja 250 (sport)
Honda Nighthawk 250 standard
Honda CMX250C Rebel cruisers
Suzuki GZ250
Yamaha Virago 250*
AlphaSports' GV250*


avg weight 300lb


I highly recommend taking the Basic Rider training course

he motorcycle riders involved in accidents are essentially without training; 92% were self-taught or learned from family or friends. Motorcycle rider training experience reduces accident involvement and is related to reduced injuries in the event of accidents."

There are other reasons why you should take the MSF course. Passing the class can save you ten percent on your insurance premiums. Many states also waive the riding test for your motorcycle license if you complete the MSF program. But one great reason isn't mentioned often. Because the MSF supplies the bike and even has loaner helmets to use, it's a terrific way to get a taste of motorcycling for just $100-150 bucks. (A few states fund training through motorcycle registrations and offer the class for as little as $20, and many dealers reimburse the cost of the class when you buy a bike.) And it's more fun than drivers ed ever was.

Some readers might notice that I didn't include the 250cc cruisers like the Honda Rebel and the late Virago 250 that the factories created just for new riders. These have attracted a lot of women riders to motorcycling and God bless them for that. But in my book they are too small, with inadequate power for anything more than in town riding. The bigger engines of the bikes I listed might sound intimidating, but everyone I've ridden has a beginner friendly engine. The MSF program uses 250's so if you take the class you can see what they are like. But most cruiser riders can start on a 600-800cc bike without problems.