1. Lower Than Angels

Intro:
Man has a unique set of gifts.*

Nature did not fit man to any sort of environment, as opposed to other animals, whom are fit / adapted.

It makes man a paradox in nature.*

Man, with imagination, reason, and tolerance of lack of emotions, allows man to shape nature, as opposed to the other way around.*

Man does this not by [biological] evolution, but cultural evolution.*

Jacob Brownowski calls those brilliant sequence of peaks in cultural evolution, The Ascent of Man.

Journey through intellectual history, through the high points of human history.
--

Main content:
Man was created in Africa, says Darwin.

There are some animals that haven't changed much over 4 million years. Man is not one.

Human evolution started when Africa experienced a drought.

2 million years ago, walk upright. The non-canine teeth meant it foraged, and used tools to get food.

There was a wonderful moment where Jacob said he was asked to see if there is a difference in the human teeth and gorilla teeth, him being an abstract math scientist, and finally applying it, felt great and decided to change paths toward finding human history. It's a good example of applying skills across disciplines.

A good example of comparing man to animal, a track runner, and metabolism. An even better point made when Jacob mentions that the man wasn't in flight, he did it only as a test of speed; there is no real reason. No instinct for survival. Not an animal who's action is driven by the immediate environement [[but a social environment].

He uses a skull animation to show the evolution of the head and skull to show differences from 50 millions years ago to now. Start with lemur, before it became a primate. Evolved shorter snout, wider eyes: less smell, more sight [sight as naturally selected feature, perhaps need more brain to capture all of the input?]. 20 million, more human like skull now, no snout. 14 million, canine teeth is reduced to normal teeth [started eating simple foods or started cooking?]. 5 million, two kinds, vegetarian and meat eaters. The meat eater being close to 'the missing link'. 2 million years ago, a larger brain. Used a tool, stone to kill, and had a social system to share knowledge, as most died at age 20. 1 million years, used fire, homo erectus, human, 3 lb brain. Less than 1 million, Homo sapiens, change in hand or brain controlling hand (ability to make and use tools). The combination of faculties -- eyes, hand, feet, brain -- make him creative [very good observation! The requirement of coordinated limbs to create].•

The only creative animal. [other animals act on instinct, survival, or nativism].

Man ate meat. But to get the meat, at some point, such as fast kinds of elk in Africa requires cooperation, which requires some kind of language. [not creative, but rather something that comes from an instinct. What is the difference from creativity and problem solving? Is problem solving to survive instinct or creativity?].

Humans migrated because there wasn't much near per square mile.

By 400,000 years ago, covered Eurasia. All of this, during three ice ages. First ice age, humans went to caves, used fire, [painted]. 100,000 years ago, used sophisticated tools: spear, baton, barbed harpoon, flint. Ice age forced man to depend on animals. They adapted to the animals, following their migratory patterns, living similarly nomadically. Today, the Lapz, north of scandanavia still live this way. Their mode of life is a cultural adaptation, not an irreversible biological one. They have white skin because they need sunlight to create vitamin D, which white skins allows more sunlight to do. Cultural adaptation is invention of man, nothing to do biologically, unlike the reindeer they follow.

During the time in caves, they painted what preoccupied their minds: the animals they lived on. Why paint in caves where he did not live? Jacob thinks it was dark, and there, man thought of the things he eventually had to face: the terror of fighting and hunting animals. It's an experience to emulate. It proves that man had the faculties to imagine the past. [I think it's just what they did, because that's what man does without a given job that requires all of the faculties. One does something, makes something, as any artist does.]

Cultural evolution is a constant growing and widening of the imagination.

This is my mark, this is man. [Its quite true that art and other artificial things will always exist.]

2. Harvest of the Seasons

12000 years ago, civilization takes off.

End of the Ice Age.

Jacob says humans came to the realization of dominating plants and animals.

Jacob says there was a social evolution, a necessity to settle.

The struggle of conscience who make this decision is recorded in The Bible [?].

Of the people that settled, is most of the world now. Of nomadic peoples, few are left.

Civilization can never progress with a nomadic lifestyle.

Bakhtari people of Persia, still nomadic.



