Translate and use Chinese from now on.

Connections
1. The Trigger Effect:
Starts by questioning how the things (technology) around us affect us (stimulus), and how those things came about.

Only specialized people understand specific things. (How to fix a power line, power plant problem, transportation)*

One has to ignore it all to keep up with the pace of life in New York.

There are technological traps (elevators, subways), and everyday people go through these.

And if the grid goes down, then there's no one on other side of the emergency switch. And chaos ensues among the public. And soon an apocalypse scenario. How many individuals can live off of the land, able to plow?

That's when you realize everything is so interdependent that all it takes is on event to cause everything to fail. And the only way to survive is to have knowledge of working a manual plow to start over again.
--

At some time, it stopped raining and got hot. And people stopped wandering and went to river valleys.

When it flooded it brought compost (vegetation) and fertilizer (pot ash).

To plant grains, they invented the plough.

With the plough you know how much food you will have next year, and because of that, you will be there next year, and because of that you can plan for the future.

Then you can have surplus food. With that, things flourish. People take on other higher level activities - basket weaving (which leads to spinning flax for textile), milking, skinning animals.

Ovens to bake grain, and bricks.

Pots to store food.

Potters wheel to do it faster.

How to differentiate pots? Write on it the name and symbol, writing. A granary.

Steppe pyramid? From mud hut to pyramid. How?

Because to feed themselves they had to irrigate.

To irrigate, requires math, geometry, and teaches you how to stone.

[It's interesting to see knowledge is only within proximity. Only the Egyptians built pyramids, or other civilizations, other things. Knowledge wasn't prevalent.]

[It's also interesting to see how knowledge within the proximity is combined, to create something new. Stone knowledge + math + gemeotry = irrigation and, with a little creativity, pyramids]

If the pharaoh says he wants a pointed stone monument, that's what he gets. [suggests a higher order of wants, more than survival, and only available to the aristocrats]

2500bc
The same drought that drove people to the Nile, preserved the tombs they built. And on the was of the tombs are the proof of history: plough, weapon-making, scribes, taxes, beauracrats, policemen, punishment.

The kings ability to tell when the flood would come, astronomers observed Syrius rises just before dawn on one particular day (17th July) every year, and that day is one day before the flood begins.

They also noticed the flood canes once every 365 days. And so they created the calendar.

Mark the flood every year.

That knowledge, and the ability to control, gives powers to build empires.*

[reminds me of the flood from Hurricane Katrina. Humankind have been to the moon, built a Hubble telescope, built a large hardon collider, yet could not build levees to handle a flood, a failure similar to that of a small town along the Nile in Egypt]

[reading some of Hurricane Katrina's wiki, the economy was already declining, but afterward declined more leaving service oriented jobs unemployed and firms leaving. Construction was the only booming industry. The scary thing to me is that people did not change their jobs to be help with construction because modern jobs are too specialized.]

Great ancient temples of Carnak, in Cairo. The New York of the time. 65 times, 40 gardens. Greeks and Romans gawked at it later.

You come from a place of modern technology, and yet, these kinds of places still stop you dead.

Egyptians built an empire with a handful of tools, yet look how complex it is, just soon after the man made harvest (plough). It gave people control over nature, and at the same time tied us, for the first time, for good to them (technology)*, so that the things that we invent will provide tomorrow a better good than today. The Egyptians knew it, that's why they had gods

Carnak was the first great statement of what a handful of technology (and the approval of gods) and unlimited manpower could do.
--

Modern equivalent: Kuwait, nomads settle at a river, of oil, Egyptians took 4000 years, Kuwaitis only taking 4000 days, from nomad to modern, in much less than a generation. Now, just like any other city, tied to technology.

The only way we, with our technology, can survive, is to sell it to the rest of the world.

Or is it better?*

Will it spread to use technology as we do, without understanding them?*

[triggered thought about Northern Laos, and how they gained technology without really understanding them]

"If you understand something today, then it already must be obsolete." Or, never did so many people understand so little of so much.

Why are we in this position? Why is it the way it is? And not some different way, with some different technology. 

An invention is like a trigger, because once it's there, it changes the way we are (live?) and it stimulates another change.

Where and how they happened is fascinating.

Nobody created something instantly, one just had to put the bits and pieces together in the right way.

----

嫂子套：
我今天浪費時間像關於東西。好笨。現在知道了為甚麼我以前看電影著我感覺開明。因為我對電腦什麼都不想！

早上死了：
不可能展望未來，所以未來總是突然。人只總是做事，不知道未來。那是怎麼改變來。*

Alexander the Great的時候一個人在河找者金子發現了就一種的特別的石頭。後來人可以用那種的石頭查金子的質量。後來人創造零錢。後來零錢替換以貨易貨。

一個圖書館存在一千年，有差不多五十萬！。。。

在一個書裡面可以有什麼都知識關於一個課！。。。

一個科技可以幫忙很多：一種的帆長貿易，再長錢。
—

2: Death in the Morning


