scrub body with scrubbing material, like the East Asian scrubbing cloth, or something natural, like a luffa

body measurements (found in an e-mail draft):

Gender	M
Inseam	82.55 cm
Trunk	58.42 cm
Forearm	36.83 cm
Arm	63.5 cm
Thigh	53.34 cm
Lower Leg	52.07 cm
Sternal Notch	139.7 cm
Total Body Height	165.1 cm
—

In case of methamphetamine use, persons with schizotypal personality disorders are at great risk of developing permanent psychosis.

not health insured:
Travel Clinic - Travel Health of Williamsburg, LLC, 287 McLaws Circle, Suite 2, Williamsburg, VA 23185

health insurance:
  blue of california - id:XEHJ05070918 - 3/1-5-31
  anthem blue shield - 
dental insurance - metlife - id:last 4 digits of social security
Doctor
  Shari D Reitzen - ENT, 240 Willoughby St., Maynard Building, 9th Floor, Brooklyn, NY 11201, Brooklyn Hospital Center
  Diana Leykina - General Practitioner, 2299 Post St Ste 313, SF
  Dharmesh K Shah - 710 Libery St, Portsmouth - Dad's doctor
  Piccioni Frank J - Osteopathy, 516 Innovation Drive, Suite 103, Chesapeake VA, (757) 495-0606
  Kevin Ho - ENT, 415-682-8181, http://www.kevinhomd.com
Dentist - Eldon Young DDS - 2022 Judah, SF
Surgeon - Calvin Y. Lee DDS, Inc - 348 Taraval Street, SF, CA 94116 - what is this for?
Oral Surgeon - ?, 805 Union Street, Brooklyn NY 11215, Park Slope Oral & Maxillofacil Surgery Associates, LLP


self tips:
if you get sleepy during the day, exercise, sit up, listen to music.

don't consume any caffeine.

sleep, even if for 9-9.5 hours. Also, close the blinds.

osteopathy

a normal schedule for me, following my body signals
cereal/dietary fiber for breakfast
music in the morning
protein for lunch
workout around 5pm
film in the evening
blog when you are deep in thought
Always try hard. Anything shown in public should demonstrate my intelligence and wisdom



http://www.proteinpower.com/drmike/ketones-and-ketosis/karl-popper-metabolic-advantage-and-the-c57bl6-mouse/
	delta weight = calories in - calories out (burned)
	changing the right side of equation via exercise and diet is not the correct way to lose weight. Your body will suffer.
	
get the bruises on my legs checked***

listen to music in the morning, or at night while driving

continue brushing teeth as I always have. May need to floss at night or at least use mouthwash.

wash oil off face frequently, keep a hankerchief
after eating, the body gets cold because blood goes to the stomach to help digest

sleeping disorder
	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circadian_rhythm_sleep_disorder
	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delayed_sleep_phase_syndrome
	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pineal_gland
	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronotherapy
	treat with light therapy

	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Biological_clock_human.svg
	
	can't sleep after eating, because the food keeps me warm
	try light therapy or ask for melatonin
	"Starting about two hours before bedtime, exposure to bright light will delay the circadian phase, causing later wake-up time and later sleep onset."
	i could just read to sleep...

dry skin on some parts of feet, wear socks?

hair
	brush hair - before showering
	soak hair - very wet
	petrissage?
	shampoo - use the palms of your fingers, mimic the motions of hairstylists, start from the scalp and massage down to the ends of hair, don't bunch or squeeze hair
	rinse completely

	condition
	soak hair - gently squeeze out water, not so wet hair

	never rub hair with a towel, this will cause tangling and damage
	avoid hot water, use warm water
	never brush wet hair, use a wide tooth comb, hair is fragile when wet

frequency depends on hair type:
i guess i have oily hair, so it can be washed everyday without harm, but i found it to look crappy on the fourth day.
use oil-free products

	straighten hair
	1) hairdressing & silicone creams - VO5 hairdressing (can be greasy)
	2) comb straight (wide bristle) and blow dry
	3) flat iron
	4) styling product with polymers (washes out/doesn't feel natural)
	5-7) too costly/too much effort

	have to condition on the 4th day
	shampoo scalp
	condition hair (not scalp)

	http://www.wikihow.com/Straighten-Your-Hair
	blow dry pointing down

deodarant
	deodorant - stops odor, by making the armpit inhabitable for bacteria
	antiperpirant - stops sweating, by blocking sweat glands. usually contains aluminum compounds, which aren't natural, some studies show detrimental effects.
	apply in a large area, not just where hair grows

computer
	should move mouse with elbow, not wrist
	sit properly

excercise twice a week, cardio once a week

armpit hair - trim it
pubic hair - trim it
nose hair - need to buy a special trimmer

review on trying a double edge razor- http://www.amazon.com/review/R365SBPAX5HX43/ref=cm_cr_rdp_perm

haircut
caesar cut, gaurd 4
"skater cut" - cut front to eyebrows or higher, cut back to hairline, dunno about sides, thin hair out with texture shears, like zac efron

hemmorhoids
don't sit for long periods of time
don't overeat junk food - pizza, mexican, anything that makes you go to the bathroom
The best way to prevent hemorrhoids is to keep stools soft so they pass easily, thus decreasing pressure and straining, and to empty bowels as soon as possible after the urge occurs. Exercise, including walking, and increased fiber in the diet help reduce constipation and straining by producing stools that are softer and easier to pass.[7] Spending less time attempting to defecate and avoiding reading while on the toilet have been recommended.



http://www.proteinpower.com/drmike/ketones-and-ketosis/karl-popper-metabolic-advantage-and-the-c57bl6-mouse/

First, let’s look at what’s driving the left side of the equation. What’s making us eat more? What’s making us want to move less? Well, for starters, hunger is making us eat more. That and the ready availability of food. Even if we were a little hungry we probably wouldn’t eat unless the food was at hand. We would have to let our hunger reach a higher level before we would seek out food that cost us a lot of activity to get. If all we have to do is reach into a bag of chips, we can sate our hunger (at least temporarily) pretty easily. If we have to get up and cook something, that’s another story.

Forgetting about the availability of food, let’s focus on hunger. Hunger is nature’s way of telling us that we need to eat. Why would nature tell us we need to eat, though, when we’re carrying 40 pounds of excess fat? A couple of reasons. First, one of the signals that the fat cells are sending telling the brain that they’re full – leptin – is blunted. Another reason is that elevated insulin levels – and virtually everyone with an excess 40 pounds of fat has too much insulin – help drive the hunger response in a number of ways. Too much insulin can drop blood sugar levels, and as we’ve discussed, a falling blood sugar drives the urge to eat. Too much insulin also traps the fat in the fat cells. As MD and I discussed in Protein Power, insulin not only drives fat into the fat cells, it also keeps fat there once it’s in. The cells of the body need constant nourishment, not just that that they receive during the normal three meals per day. The body takes in the excess energy consumed during those meals, converts it to fat and stores it in the fat cells. If all systems are working properly the stored energy is released as needed during the time between meals and distributed to the cells via the blood. If insulin levels remain high, the fat can’t get out of the fat cells. So, the individual cells are starving despite the fact that there is abundant energy locked away in the fat cells.

But what about blood sugar? If the cells can’t get to the fat, can’t they use blood sugar? Sure they can. But where are they going to get it? If they consume what’s in the blood, then that level drops and stimulates appetite. In the presence of elevated insulin levels gluconeogenesis doesn’t operate very well, so it’s tough to make more blood sugar. The body finds itself between a rock and a hard place and puts in an SOS call to the brain.

When the brain gets this message, it cranks up all its hunger machinery and off you go looking for food. You eat some chips or a bowl of ice cream or whatever you can get your hands on. The levels of sugar and fat go up in the blood, the cells are happy for a while, and insulin is busy trying to shove it all away into the fat cells. Soon everything stabilizes back to where it was before you noshed on whatever it was you noshed on. Then the cycle repeats. This disregulated metabolism and hyperinsulinemia is what we fill in the blank above.

Now, let’s look at what happens when you intervene with a low-carb diet. You eat a steak and a few low-carb veggies. Your body gets a big influx of fat and protein and a little bit of carb. None of these foods serves to raise insulin levels a lot, so insulin goes up only a little. But along with the insulin now comes a squirt of glucagon, insulin’s counter regulatory hormone. Glucagon can drive gluconeogenesis to make blood sugar if needed, and glucagon also stimulates the activity of hormone-sensitive lipase, the enzyme that transports fat out of the fat cells (also discussed in Protein Power) .

So now between meals we’re in a situation where the cells can get the nourishment they need, so they don’t send the SOS to the brain, and the brain has no need to tell you to eat. So, for the most part, you’re not hungry. As time goes on and you remain on the low-carb diet, you may actually eat more calories than you need to meet all your cellular requirements. What happens then? The brain can send a message to the body to dissipate more calories. You become more active. Instead of dreading working out, you want to work out. You want to move. Even better, internally, where you can’t even sense it, your mitochondria are allowing protons to drift back across the inner mitochondrial membrane and dissipating excess energy. You activate many futile cycles within the cells that ditch excess energy as heat. In short, you’re eating more calories and losing weight to a greater extent than you were when you were simply trying to restrict calories.