Heyo.

I’m quite interested in this job, but I’m unsure if I can: I’d like to work remotely, from Asia, where, by the magics of time, graveyards are sunny. Since I don’t know if it’s possible to work remotely,  I’ll try to keep this short. I can’t promise that though. I like to talk.

I have a strange personality problem. I’m often incapable of living beyond my physical locality: as a child, I never used the telephone; as an adult, I never used Facetime. I’ve always lived with the people I‘m close to. From community to community, commune to commune, I’ve been around. Now, after being disabled from living that way, first in Taiwan by the courts, now in Thailand by the quarantine, and likely in my near future living in remote nature, a solution is surely needed.

I mean, I still plan to be in tune with my locality, neighbors, nature, ecology, but perhaps digital communication isn’t so bad?

I remember being a very playful child at the end of a cul-de-sac in the endless suburbs of America. I stayed out all day and night. Sometimes I’d use the computer, and when I did, one app was always open: AIM (AOL Instant Messenger). That was my primary medium of communication with my closest friends (my older brother and his friends used IRC). It was a way of communicating that, now in hind-sight, replicated quite well the casual feeling of hanging out in the same physical space. Even my favorite digital games had hang-out spots, and in hind-sight were probably my favorites due to that sole reason: I just wanted a digital space to hang and play with my friends. StarCraft’s battle.net channels provided chat rooms to hang in, my friends and I had our own forums, Half-Life mods had custom servers with chat and audio, TeamSpeak, then Steam came out, the forums then became dusty and we began using Gmail as a forum-like chat thread, then smart-phones came out, messaging apps were revived (FB Messenger, and country-specific apps), then Telegram. After that, I became old and zoned out of the digital world, but somewhere in there is the key to good digital communication, of hanging out, of being together, and I think Discord may be it, if not, it’s the closest one.

I still do not know why I’m like this. Maybe it just makes sense to be together, without intention. It just feels right. It’s possibly the only way I could communicate, digitally.

I still zone out of the digital world... not using any forms of digital communication. I never used social media platforms: I gave up on Facebook about a few months after it came out. My heart was right. I was probably still the only person using AIM, and that was the only way to get to me, digitally.

Anyway, I just think this is a very important tool, and I wouldn’t mind working for it. Besides, the job will force me to be with my family, from here, in Thailand, and wherever else I may be in the world. :)

It’s been some time since I’ve done anything technical, but, if my recent non-technical personal history scares you, I can ensure you, I have no problem doing technical stuff, from making video games to more creative new media arts, I’m quite sure that with time I could make anything if I really wanted to. The only problem would be low-level programming. I don’t have the focus for that level of detail anymore.

Anyway, this is support job, and I’m a community support person by nature. This fits me much better than any programming job. Though, a more generalist job would be even more fitting, as it would allow me to use some skills—hopping from support to bug tracking to requesting pulls for small bugs myself, or, updating the support site content with FAQs, or re-designing the site so people can intuitively find their answers, or making my own little batch ‘n parsing command tools to make my life easier. I don’t know current technologies, but is there even a connection between customer service software (ZenDesk), bug tracking and software (Jira), and project software?...

But just doing straight customer support is cool too. Talking is what keeps me happy. I wouldn’t be able to do a programming job full-time anymore anyway... I need to talk. Surely if you’ve gotten this far you’ve realized that I enjoy talking, even through writing.

Beyond that, well, it would be cool to find or begin my own digital communities with the following specific interests: nature-based-DIY, nature restoration (re-planting endangered plants, reviving ecology), nature cleaning, making play-ground / street games, making fighting games, and making digital tools for good (re-routing food waste to feed everyone, tracking local discussions about local area problems like stray animals and stray people, etc.)...

I’ll be in Thailand for now, until I can get back to Taiwan. I really need to go to my childhood home in the US and be with my mom in real life though.

...Ah! I almost forgot!: e-mail is the only way to contact me!: rahil627@gmail.com

But maybe Discord can win me over. ;)