flux factory

letter of interest:
Four weeks ago, I came back after traveling and living abroad for two years. I came back to America for four weddings, to attend a master's in Design and Technology at Parson's, and a slight intention of living in New York, mostly for the love of a group of artists I met there previously -- Babycastles. Parson's, however, did not fit, and I felt all I really needed was a community, a dwelling closer to nature, some artists to talk and collaborate with, to enable me to continue a self-directed lifestyle. Lacking the career advancement junk of The New School (and higher education in general), Flux Factory seems fitting.

statement:
I started with games perhaps two and a half years ago, when I first moved to New York. They were just a bunch of prototypes for Experimental Gameplay Project. The first fruitful game was Pinkies Up, a social iPad game similar to flip cup, 4-8 players. The next game was Crystal Brawl, a more sporty, competitive 2v2 game. Both were collaborations. After that I was traveling and more social, and used computers far less. I made a short film about a roti delivery guy, perhaps from my fasciation of social street life and a reason to shoot the city from the streets. While learning Chinese in Taiwan, I started Humans of Taiwan. I think from just this set of work, one can see a trend from computer work to more experiential things, and trying to find ways to create and/or work while experiencing. I spend most of my time in public places, talking, working, wandering, playing, thinking about others' minds, and I wish to make more works in the public that allow people to interact more.

collaboration:
During my travels, I stopped at my parent's house in India. A friend planned to come and make a game together using India as an inspiration. That didn't work, mostly because I didn't feel like programming or sitting on a computer, and instead wanting to interact with people in India in a meaningful way. It resulted in a game development workshop at the main university of the city. More can be seen here http://jonstoked.com/rajinikanth-loves-games-game-jam (i'll try putting up the original site on my domain).


