Disclaimer: I'm writing this from my phone, pardon the phone prone errors!

It seems that during my application to Media Lab, my particular research group of interest, Center for Civic Media, disappeared from the option list. After receiving the rejection of admission (feel free to ask for the study plan) to the [Media] Lab email, I must have clicked some link which led to the Lab's website, to which this position being advertised. And this is how one remembers one can simply work for the place one desires to be in, which seems quite refreshing compared to the high degree of organization that academic cliques often alter the mind toward.

After that, I checked all of the positions at the lab and many others outside of the Lab, and this position still remains closest to my desires, though, far from ideal.

Far, because it is physically far from reality. What I actually desire is to remain in the NGOs in developing countries, or at least, have my body physically be there to maintain a good empirical state of mind, for which it would be clear to see the difference in media portrayal and reality, as opposed to communicating, which is precisely the problem. It would be ideal to do the work remotely, but I assume this is impossible. I guess that's the caveat of any non-Vice-like media organization.

I think there will always be this sense of phoniness, and shame of being in such an institution within a heart of capitalism, as opposed to spending time in the NGOs in developing countries. One doesn't forget friends in Nepal carrying bodies, and their calls to go back and help in anyway possible to develop their country's civil infrastructure.

My stance with the Lab remains: as position for a year of my life, I still believe being in the probably the best Lab in the world is an experience worth trying.

This position in particular interests the critical theory part of me, you know, ideology, hagemony, exclusivity, equality, culture problems (including the culture of science), etc. That's probably be most intriguing subject to me.

As for the position's responsibilities, I feel no problems. Maybe I need to learn how to write a research paper for academia (some journal?), which seems like a good, natural exercise of progress.

As for the position's requirements, the only problem is the desired master's in public health -- perhaps public health NGOs are the focus, above other social problems listed (good prioritizing). I honestly don't know what the scope of public health is, and have not even read much in it. It is of my interest, but what I imagine of what public health could be varies greatly by country: don't use plastic for campfire and enforce speed limit on the sides of railless mountains in Laos vs making the American health system less bureaucratic.

If this fails, perhaps I'll search for janitorial positions in the lab. :)

A note on communication: I am in Taiwan (12 hour difference). I am broke, CouchSurfing at the moment, but have wealthy parents in case I do need to fly to America. Email first, then we can video chat at any time desired.