Long long ago. Oh wait, apparently just in September 2015 I decided to take a break from my nomadic life and write out some directions, some of which written for an "objective statement" to MIT Media Lab (http://www.rahilpatel.com/blog/talking-to-myself-to-create-a-statement-objective#statement). In it, I list some interests of the time, which is often some mix of civics and technology. At the time I was living in Taiwan, so everything in my mind was meant to be for Taiwan. I think much of the desires written was derived by a love for the neighborhood I used to live in. I cared for the people around me, and care, for me, is love. Thus, I wanted to help the people around me in every way possible, but being broke and facing an already very service-oriented / caring / autonomous country (my guess, similar to the Philippines, as many females can be seen taking care of elderly and babies in neighborhood parks here) and facing many silly cultural limits, I found it quite difficult and lonely (usually the only person with a more technical mind) to intervene much. Instead, I drifted a few volunteer gigs and simply lived in various areas (from the city to a small aboriginal island). It really is difficult with the foreigner stigma. But simply living with people proved to be better than any sort of exclusive NGO I've encountered.

Well, that's what came first to mind when I read the rep and cooptation article (http://www.mitgovlab.org/projects/representation-or-cooptation/). The political problem of being a leader isn't something I think of much. But perhaps that could translate to the wild amount of gov money given to the mass amount of paper-pushing NGOs problem?

I don't have any sort of background doing surveys or speaking a Philippine language, although, contradictorily, much of my childhood friends are Filipino-Americans (Tagalog-speaking). Yet, I do plan to at least travel there, and if I like it enough, live there for some time too, perhaps using some money for a Emergency Medical Technician program (because they don't have crazy language requirements), and work there.

I am at the airport in Taiwan at the moment, back from a visa-run, contemplating of going back home to VA for a few months.