These notes are mostly from historical resources.

Current sources:
Great Ideas of Philosophy, The Great Cource
Bertrand Russell's History of Philosophy
A New History of Western Philosphy
Wikipedia

Bertrand Russell's History of Philosophy:
He covers from ancient to the publication of the book, 1945.

Bertrand Russel:
Logical analysis. Using a syntactical system to prove truths, in a mathematical fashion.

Two parts in philosophy: Understating of nature and an ethical or political doctrine as to the best way of living.

Separates and claims that moral considerations impede progress.

Marx:
...Philosophers have only interpreted the world in various ways, but the real task is to alter it.

A focus on action.

Socialism.

Nietzsche:
No love. Prefers elitist world. Lusts power, a will to power". Has no sympathy.

Descartes:
Cartesian doubt, I think therefore I am. Mind and matter.

Leibnez:
Analytic philosophy.

Spinoza:
Absolute, determinate world. Understands passions as an emotion. Live noble, recognizing the limits of human power.




A New History of Western Philosophy:
Limiting self to 1945 and on, because Bertrand Russell covers up to 1945.

Aesthetics:
Stopped here*

Existentialism:
Husserl:
Phenomology:
Study immediate data of consciousness.

Heideiger:
Like Descartes starts from knowing nothing, before Aristotle.

Sartre:
Human freedom.
 - we try to hide it from ourselves and adopt some pre-determined roller offered by morality, society, or religion. Our efforts at concealment (of human freedom) are bound to fail, double minded, tacitly aware of our freedom while striving to reduce ourselves to mere objects". A condition he calls "bad faith".



Quine?

Wittgenstein:
Treats philosophy as different from science, said answering questions in the way of science is the real source of metaphysics, and leads to darkness.

Marx:
Religion shouldn't just be transformed to idealist metaphysics, or eliminated. Money is the cause of alienation, a social upheaval is necessary.

Philosophers only interpreted the world in various ways, the point is to change it.

Manifesto:
Proletarian creates a revolution against the ruling class -- the bourgeoisie.

Manifesto cases revolutions in four large Western European cities. Expelled and poor, 3 out if 6 children died, he often spent 10 hours a day at the library of the British Museum developing a theory for dialectical materialism.

Capital:
Like manifesto, but specifically for Capitalistic societies. Cyclic nature of capitalism revolution communism revolution.

He was wrong, even in Marxist type communisms like Mao, Stalin, Lenin, impersonal forces shape history (todo: don't understand) but important because he made economic factors more prominent on politics and culture.




Kierkegaard:
Never married, deemed self unsuitable.

Individual is an unquestioning member of a crowd, the aesthetic life is the first stage towards self-realization. The aesthetic person pursues pleasure, but does so with taste and elegance. The essential feature of his character is that he avoids taking on any commitment, whether personal, social, or official, that would limit his options for seizing whatever is immediately attractive.

As time goes on, such a person may realize that his demand for instant freedom is actually a limitation on his powers. If so, he moves on to the ethical stage, in which he takes place within social institutions and accepts the obligations that flow from them. But however hard he tried to fulfill the moral law, he finds that his powers are unequal to it. Before God he is always wrong.



Schopenhauer:
World as Will:
Will derives from want, deficiency, suffering. Best hope is alternating pain and boredom. Liberation through art or renunciation the will to live through ascetism.

I must come to have such a horror if this miserable world that I will no longer think it enough to love others as myself or to give up my own pleasure when they stand the in the way of others' good. To reach an ideal I must adopt chastity, poverty, and abstinence, and welcome death when it comes...

John Start Mill:
Self-learned, reasoning machine, depression, saved by poetry

Bentham:
Utilitarianism: greatest happiness, greatest number, emphasize science and technology in school