Yo.

I caught an ad of your place... somewhere.

This is surely the darkest shot I’ve taken, but, oh well, always happy to write / talk.

First, the bureaucracies: I’m a U.S. citizen that normally resides in Taiwan, currently in Thailand for the pandemic, born from Indian parents, who were born in Uganda and India... It sounds like German culture is extremely bureaucratic, so... :(

Next, the bad news: I haven’t programming games nor even played games for many life-times. I’m hoping it’s possible to just apply in general, generally for a generalist position. The more freedom the better. Just do whatever’s necessary and feels right. Tinkering away... and hope I get better at doing those two things. I understand this isn’t a tiny art installation game nor a small indie game, but hopefully it hasn’t grown to the point that one person cannot grasp the whole of it (the gameplay code, asset process, build process, testing process, etc.), so that one could weave through any part of it and tinker.

*sigh*

Finally, we can talk: I’m a bit interested in the game because it reminds me of some old MMO idea lodged deeply in my head somewhere: my ideal MMO, the game I would have loved as a kid. My ideal doesn’t seem anything like Seed though; I’m not really sure what Seed is, yet...? My ideal was perhaps something closer to an open MMO with basic interactions (interact, emote, craft; Animal Crossing): no goals, no rules, just hanging out people, wandering through vast environments, interacting, pondering, talking: just living... Ah right! Now I remember! *It’s supposed to be designed to allow everyone to be themselves* (their own unique selves, as opposed to herding toward some stupid common goal). And this, likely leading to the process of civilizing? I wonder if I lost that piece of writing...

I believe Jason Rohrer already attempted to go toward that certain something in one of many of his quiet little master-pieces, though that project was quite literally ‘one giant leap for man’! A single ‘man. I haven’t played it, nor any games in years, but his attempt’s really close to it. Anarchy?... Anyway, whatever it is, the pace of his game seems to frantic for my personality.

There’s just some vague attraction toward Seed for me. It’s certainly not the sci-fi junk, nor even the existentialism, not even all the things talked about in your group’s podcast. I’ve spent much of my life attached to the world, a realist. Perhaps escapism?

I don’t know. It’s nice to not know though. I don’t worry.

If there’s space for someone to play, provide design thoughts, ideate design elements, create new design paths, tinker values, make the game feel *good* and make the game abide common (design) sense to play / interact with, just reply. I wouldn’t ever want to be programming for 40 hours a week (even with the pleasant C#), but I’m sure if I have the project in mind, at hand, and was a part of the conversation, I could be of use on elucidating what your company’s chasing... Maybe. At least hammer away at some part of it. Besides, most of Asia knows how to live off of one day of street work per week!... If I were to generalize from my German house-mate at the moment, German culture is fond of “sketch-tools” (schedules) as opposed to one’s own natural schedule. That’s a tough cultural difference for her. She’s slowly falling under the sway of the weather, and slowly understanding her body’s rhythms.

Now, the idea of moving to a city. That’s probably what drove everyone to become detached and talk about sci-fi(!), as opposed to caring, loving, nurturing life (all forms of life). Please let me remain here, with these traditional Asian women.