base cover letter from YuCo:

Yoh.

I caught an ad somewhere on this screen. I wonder: is there space in your company for an intern or junior generalist role?

I’ve been out of tech for more than 5 years, but quarantine... may have gotten me back into a certain frame of mind that allows me to think in such narrow ways. In 2012-2014, I was quite into game art, interactive art, more normative indie games, and especially playful input. The output, I didn’t really care about, as long as the player understood: a simple 2D interaction, or even just re-using previously-made simple games was more than enough (f.e.: just connect old games to funky input devices). Input, interaction, and especially play, for me and my friends (at the time) were far far more important than any visual output. In some cases, visual output was completely unnecessary! Welp, that covers my excuse on why I don’t have any visualization experience! :) It just wasn’t my thing. Babycastles (of NY) was the community that best reflected my interests and even human values of that time (check out their site and you’ll get the idea. Their MAD exhibition with Keita really nails some of the art values and directions I shared with them). Maybe sensor-based interactive art and game art in public places ‘n spaces would have been my next natural step of that time / direction, but my time in NY was short, and I didn’t return for long.

At the current moment, stuck in another country during the pandemic, I thought it would be cool to get back into making stuff. You know, just do whatever’s needed to get shit done sort of work, but from a remote place. Being remote, I think I should be better able to focus on a screen now to do the work. NY was such a social lifestyle that I didn’t have the patience (at the time), which worked well as it was more about organizing playful events. Now, near nature, I’m a much more calm person.

I’m quite fond of this sort of generalist making work, of simply finding and trying various tools, libraries, and hardware, to do whatever is needed. There’s also a powerful feeling that derives from being able to technically implement any design (even if the solution beneath is janky) and knowing that it can be done. Besides, it’s way cooler than working on most large game projects (lovingly home-made indie games may be an exception).

My utter lack of visualization exp: Back in 2012-2014 processing.js was often used for limited pop stuff (projecting visuals), and people likely sorta had to dig into C++ via openFrameworks (oF) or SDL for i/o or more open-gl access, which is where things got too ugly for me (at the time, I was coming off of a big C# job). I vaguely remember trying oF because Zack Gage used it for his iOS games (before he made Ridiculous Fishing); After trying it, I quickly decided I’m too impatient  (and too lazy?) to re-invent the game engine (i.e. basic collision detection). Anyway, by the time I returned to NY two(?) years later, even the guy who made oF left his institutionalized job (at the department where I had planned to do a master’s) and shifted more toward “poetic” stuff himself, as some core members of Babycastles (and other lovely people from the NY game scene) were helping him run workshops for his then new School for Poetic Computation. I couldn’t tolerate NY at that moment in time, so, I just never got into that stuff (the visual output stuff). Besides, there were way more experienced people in NY who were into that stuff (Ivan ‘n Syed), and I was happy just to help out. Anyway, I’m really hoping the code frameworks have gotten prettier since then—c# wrappers for everything: open-gl, flash-like vector drawing, inputs from embedded devices... please?

Although I’ve done some programming in my past, I don’t have the personality of a framework engineer, or even just a programmer! I am just a supportive worker, helping where I can. I have dire weaknesses too: I absolutely loathe objective-C and web programming (esp. PHP), and my tolerance for low-level programming (C, pointers, manual memory management) is low, especially for long periods of time; AS3/2D Flash and C# (4.0) felt perfect, and stepping out of that comfort working zone, at least for anything big, was something I avoided. I personally didn’t want to make stuff without enjoying the process. Working with terrible tools eventually hurts my soul and brain, and i’ve seen it destroy the souls and dreams of many indie game makers. That’s why I would like to apply for a more general role(: because I don’t have the specific experience and because I know I can suck at doing certain kinds of tech work).

I would ideally fit a more social, supportive role: perhaps ‘(‘company’-)community support ronin’ best fits my role in life, just doing what’s needed, guiding things to go along their own way, constantly creating new concepts ‘n ideas, imagining how designs would play out, talking, finding useful tools (again, because I don’t like re-inventing), smoothening the work-flow, keeping things tidy, catching low hanging fruit, and making sure everything abides practical common sense. Perhaps in your company’s lingo, that would hover between ‘intern designer’, ‘intern creative coder’, and ‘company (anti-)manager’?...

Anyway, I’m sure that’s enough for now. It’s just a shot.

from the bases of mountains of south-east Asia.
Ra