[todo: never sent, just keep for future writing ‘n documentation jobs]

heyo,

It’s winter time now, which means a time for gathering my thoughts, my life.., and  their reflection on internet. Over the past few years I lost my childhood web-site—twice!—due to my own neglect and Namecheap’s inability to automatically bill Paypal, and so, I figured it was time to move on to one of those new cheap cloud servers. After I lost it the first time, I created an account with Vultr during a layover at an airport, just before the pandemic, setup ’n played with Hugo, but ultimately ended up never using it for a year, was charged $5/mo instead of $2.50/mo, and found out my account was closed? *Strange...* This time though, I tried DigitalOcean and *wow; This is my kind of jam(!):* Good inclusive documentation and community; Lots of love ‘n time was put into even the most basic linux tutorial... And now I finally get to try Plesk, remote login, and who knows, maybe get to continue to live life with just iOS devices! :O

This position is interesting to me because of it’s focus on maintaining a set of writings. I’ve got a very particular interest in technologies around expressions (written language and others) and publishing, and doing that the simplest way possible: with text files, a site generator, version control, a diff/comp tool, and few commands ‘n scripts. Doing this job will surely force me to master those specific simple technologies of my interest. Then, perhaps in the future I can in turn create some new publishing mediums for people that express themselves in different ways! Yay!~~

(The other position of interest is customer success engineer, as I *need* a healthy social life while working, but that job surely requires much more server experience.)

My web-site, started in middle school, contains some of my earliest writings. It’s a sort of hyper-linked-by-concept philosophical corpus, but you know, of a child. I’m a sort of lifelong diarist ‘n thinker. I can’t stop it. *Halp(!!).* So, I’m really hoping maintaining a set of writings is a job I can tolerate, as it parallels to my natural way of being. My site is at rahilpatel.com. I just restored it over the past two days (I am already regretting the choice of using Plesk... So many problems!!). It should have rahilpatel.com/portfolio and rahilpatel.com/resume in there too. Warning: debugging mode might be on when you see it. Another warning: this site is 20 years old. :)

My life and experience is quite peculiar, but fits the position well. I started as a normal programmer, then got into the indie game scene in NY, then I did a few indie game things with close friends, but, since then, I haven’t touched computers for nearly a decade. One thing that hasn’t left me though is reading and writing. With just an iPad in hand, I can always read ‘n write anything! And so my youthful passions in technologies and mediums must deal with my later interests in the world beyond the screen...

As for servers, I know very little (*though, I did have to write a web server following the RFC from scratch for school once...*). I’ve never used most of the server ‘n virtualization technologies that came out during the past decade: Kubernetes, Docker, AWS, Firebase, etc. As I said, I’m a simple person. I’m that guy holding onto his (Name)cheap web-site from the 90s, with just a Dropbox-ful of text files. Hopefully being a newbie in servers will enable me to see it all from a more conscious and inclusive perspective, so that I can then write for the rad grandma trying to put her recipe book on the web.

Anyway, I’m in Thailand at the moment, normally reside in Taiwan, and try to visit parents in either America or India. I am stuck here for god knows how much longer. I only look at screens after the sun sets, which correlates well with America. I hope this covers enough. It’s been a very very long time since I’ve ever worked for anyone else, so be easy on me! :)

In the meantime, I’ll be messing with my fancy new server, maybe re-creating that Dropbox to Hugo publishing workflow :D, automate backing up Dropbox to Google Drive, and maybe trashing my temporary GitHub Pages sites D: ..? All from my iPad mini! This is fun. :) Servers for the people!

Ra