heyo.

I’ve known this site for quite some time, stumbling upon it from time to time throughout my life. I dig the writing style of the site, or, the way it communicates it’s information: you know, pragmatic, to the point, just enough, just right. The content isn’t just generic information-overload Wikipedia stuff; There’s some humanity to it, even some opinion, making it stand out, akin to what Pitchfork Media did for music, but, for something that matters: health!

This might seem like a random shot at the dark from a person of my background, but, I can envision this position coming close to my dream remote job: tinkering away at a writing project from time to time, jumping from one task to another, taking care of what exists, auditing what goes in, carefully crafting away at digital tome made for the masses.

People—including me!!—grow up taking in information from sites like this. I personally grew up with the internet, with Wikipedia. It wasn’t until much later I read big books. A site like Healthline might just be what people, and especially children, need from a quick query. Neither a massive Wikipedia article nor an idea-driving book, I think information provided in the direct style of Healthline will keep the world a little saner.

I also dig the topics: health, nutrition, psychology, ‘n so on. I’m specifically interested in permaculture (self-reliance)—basically living with nature: from gardening to Chinese traditional medicine to home-schooling to basic psychology. There’s a lot of information to glean on while living along-side nature. Maybe sites like Healthline will offer that sort of info in a digestible digital format.

The only writing project that I have is my first and only blog that contains much of my earliest writings ‘n philosophies (The blog itself was created in either middle school or early high school, using Wordpress!). The philosophy part of the project is a sort of hyper-linked medium for my philosophies—my ideas, concepts, thoughts. I’ll try to get it running again on rahilpatel.com. I was supposed to move it to an auto-magically static generated (Hugo?) site long ago (rathewolf.com), but I just haven’t done computer work in ages. Heck, I’ve been living with just an iPad for many years now!! This job would surely push me into a more digital-working mode which would push me toward working on own digital projects, which should help, as they share a lot of the same tools ‘n workflows.

I have a personal interest in digital tools for reading, writing, text editing (including programming), and surely during this job, editing. Voice Dream (the app) enabled me to read digitally. ByWord (the app) aided me in writing digitaly. I grew up with a computer, so I’ve always kept my text files close to me. :) Perhaps this job will help me hone that idea-to-digital-publishing workflow...

My greatest problems with this position, however, will surely be related to SEO and other forms of marketing. I am a deeply authentic person. Shallow articles about trendy topics would grind against my personal values. I checked the site recently, and, well, I’m a bit afraid the site may be going into a cringey direction. However, at the core I believe there still is a good tome of content, full of love ‘n care, and much potential to be the best site of it’s kind on the ‘net.

If you are afraid about the amount I wrote for this cover letter, then my “resume” will not help you.

happy holidays,
from a guy stranded in Thailand