Yo yo.

I hope everyone went back to their homes, to love, to cook, to garden, to take care... just to re-discover their childhood and what it means to be playful again! It’s a great time in the world.

I’d like to just apply in general because I’m generally a generalist, of the big picture sort, of the biggest picture, down to indigenous movements. It’s been a decade since I’ve been out of games, and most of the time without any form of media (except music), but I’ve played it all as a child, as part of NY’s art game scene, as a dreamer, and as a child-at-heart.

I probably wouldn’t be happy trying to fit myself into an ossified specialized role for too long. I must hop around to maintain a state of grace.  I simply enjoy cooperating with people, working with people, figuring out what their dreams are, what they loved the most in their past experiences, then helping them get closer to wherever they’re truly going, cheering and helping. I probably would defeat most at: listening to the players, understanding how different people (of all ages) play, critiquing game design, ideating new game designs, imagining the game designs through, talking about past game experiences, philosophizing, understanding what made great game experiences so good, tweaking the input controls until they feel just right, tweaking the core-most gameplay system until it feels just right, testing, optimizing the work-flow, avoiding extranneous work, crying at low-level programming languages (especially manual memory management), wishing I could simply materialize my dreams without all the toil... Well, I guess that’s one thing I value!: great, rewarding core game-play systems, the most fundamental system of the game, where the play really emerges.

I do not know what is in the mind of a mountaintop (lava?), but if people are indeed making some good ol’ fashioned multiplayer games, I might come crawling back to civilization, remotely at least! Perhaps it would be easier for people to apply if your company provided some more values, or how about some favorite games or elements of games!? My childhood favorites were variants of play-ground games my friends and I used to make up, kite fighting (on roof-tops in India), Harvest Moon (haven’t tried multi-player SD Valley), 4-player Nintendo 64 party games, Animal Crossing, and Melee. Then, later in life, relapsing to making, setting up, and playing silly play-ground-like games again with like-minded NY friends: MEGA-GIRP(?) with 2 DDR pads was pretty good; Perhaps I should have made a pole controller for Pole Riders!

To me, it sounds like the mountains are an analogy for the tough, but rewarding moments in game-play, met after much strife with much relief. I guess I’m not as competitive or try-hard as I used to be, but Melee is by far the game I played the most, and it’s possible there is no fighting game tougher nor more rewarding than that. A similar concept, simple-to-learn but difficult-to-master competitive games is what at one time in life drove my friends and I to come together and make *Crystal Brawl*; But NY was not a place to be sitting down to complete long projects; it was a place for living, experimenting, playing. And so we all went our own ways and lived and played on.

I do not really belong with people with three A’s in their title, but I also don’t know what’s truly behind those A’s, in their hearts. It sounded like children, but I’m not certain.

Let’s see.