hey Joping.

I believe this is my first match (not including people who matched and immediately fell into the ‘friend-zone’ to become ‘online contacts’).

I’m stuck in Thailand at the moment... left to survive here, at the fate of a very corrupt government. I’m guessing it’s going to be a very slow journey back home to Taiwan. It might seem contradictory to re-activate my OKC account at this time, yet, the real contradiction is: whenever I’m at a good place in life, I never seek love, and I def wouldn’t be using an online dating site!, but... that’s life, full of contradictions. :/

You sound like a great person. Your perfect day is a normal day for me: a short bike ride and/or short hike to a secret comfy spot in nature, with tea in hand, enough water, some snacks, something to express on, and my diary/journal.

You’re actually way more adventurous than I am; I’m quite the lazy nomad, letting my motorcycle do the hard work for me to move, then occupying the most comfortable spot, like a cat. For example, when I went to Nepal (8 years ago?), I didn’t go to any mountains. I immediately found Bhaktapur, and that’s where I stayed nearly the entire time. I was quite complacent with the nice traditional culture, big open plazas / communal areas, chai... only going far enough up the base of the mountain to get a good view of the valley, to allow my mind to do it’s magic and ‘see the big picture’. It seems like your early mountain hikes made an impression upon you. I would have felt too uncomfortable, rushed. Donkeys are faster than me.

Once I find another stable point, I’ll try to catch up with digital communications, but I cannot promise. For most of my life, I don’t use social apps, so don’t expect any response, and sorry in advance if that doesn’t feel good. It’s possibly my worst problem: I’m nearly always extremely focused on what’s physically around me at the moment. It’s certainly hurt people before. Yet, I still value living in the moment (and people that live in the moment). Another contradiction?

Anyway, hope all is well over there in Taiwan. Now... to find a bungalow, then a visa, then a way...!

Hmm, I’ll have to ponder about what you wrote as your golden rule some more... Is it not possible to play *and* grow old? Are they really opposites? It seems quite true for me. :(

Ra